Source: Fandom

Scene 1- The Underminer Fight
[The film begins with the Disney and Pixar logo.]

Rick Dicker: File 82-712. Agent Rick Dicker interrogating. State your name, please.

Tony Rydinger: Uh... Tony... Tony Rydinger?

Rick: Tell me about the incident.

Tony: Well, there's this girl, um, in my class. [off screen] I saw her at the track meet.

[The flashback starts on "The Incredibles".]

Tony: You're, uh, Violet, right?

Violet: That's me.

Tony: [o.s.] I sort of knew her, but she'd changed. Relaxed. She was more sure of herself. Cool, cute. I asked her out to a movie.

Tony: So, Friday?

Violet: Friday.

Tony: Friday.

Tony: [o.s.] And I went to watch the track meet. Not long after, this thing happened in the parking lot.

[Suddenly, crashing and screaming as a gigantic mining drill with two blades comes out of the ground.]

Underminer: BEHOLD, THE UNDERMINER!!! I am always beneath you, but nothing is beneath me!

Tony: [o.s.] As if things aren't weird enough, I look over and I see these boots.

Underminer: [voice fades] I hereby declare war on peace and happiness! Soon all will tremble BEFORE ME!

Mr. Incredible: You two, stay here.

Elastigirl: Wait. Should we be doing this? It is still illegal.

Tony: [o.s.] They looked like superheroes.

Mr. Incredible: We're gonna lose him.

Elastigirl: Oh, all right. One of you patrol the perimeter, keep the crowds back and safe. The other, watch after Jack-Jack.

Violet: But I thought we were gonna go with...

Mr. Incredible: [to Violet] You heard your mother. [to Elastigirl] Trampoline me!

[Elastigirl turns into a trampoline. Mr. Incredible jumps on her to get to the drill.]

Dash: I call perimeter!

Violet: You're not going anywhere, you little maggoty creep! [creates force fields around Dash]

Tony: [o.s.] I see my chance to get out of there. But there's something familiar about one of the kids' voices. [Violet speaks indistinctly] The girl, she's upset and she throws down her mask... and it's her!

Violet: Oh. Tony! Hi. Uh, this isn't what you think it is.

Tony: [o.s.] It was just getting too freaky. I couldn't handle it and ran off. [back onscreen] I feel kinda bad about it. Maybe I should've said "hi" or something? It's not her fault superheroes are illegal. And it's not like I don't like strong girls. I'm pretty secure... manhood-wise... What is that?

Rick: Have you told anyone else about this? Your parents?

Tony: No, they'd only think I was hiding something. You know what I mean?

Rick: Sure, kid.

Tony: I like this girl, Mr. Dicker, I'm supposed to go out with her Friday night. Now, things are just gonna be weird. [sighs] I wish I could forget I ever saw her in that suit.

Rick: You will, kid. You will.

[The Incredibles 2 title card is shown]

Mr. Incredible: [grunts] COME ON!

[Mr. Incredible falls off the gigantic miner drill. The gigantic miner drill appears away, as the Underminer appears.]

Underminer: CONSIDER YOURSELF UNDERMINED!!!

[The explosions destroys the whole city apart while the Underminer continues to laugh.]

Underminer: Ooh. [laughs]

[The Underminer tries to remove the money away to the agenda.]

Mr. Incredible: Underminer! We meet again-- HUH!?!

[The Underminer tries to remove Mr. Incredible away.]

Underminer: Oh, great! Now, he's on the agenda.

[The Underminer runs. The gigantic miner drill drives away. Mr. Incredible gets out and appears to the Underminer.]

Underminer: Incredible! Meet Jack Hammer!

[Mr. Incredible and the Underminer start fighting each other. Mr. Incredible throws the Underminer onto the controls, making them break. The drill starts going up and the Underminer gets into the container holding the money and escapes.]

Underminer: BUH-BYE! [chuckles]

[The alarm blares. Mr. Incredible grunts and snatches the hook.]

Mr. Incredible: No no no no NO NO NO!

[The drill reaches the surface and people panic.]

Dash: Everybody, stay back! Okay? Stay back! [runs away]

Violet: You're not sticking me with babysitting!

[Elastigirl swings to the gigantic mining drill.]

Mr. Incredible: I can't steer it or stop it. And the Underminer's escaped!

Elastigirl: We'll have to stop it before-- BOB! The monorail!

[The monorail falls off. Frozone appears and uses ice to keep the monorail from completely falling off.]

Mr. Incredible: Frozone! Yeah!

Elastigirl: We have to stop this thing before it gets to the overpass!

Mr. Incredible: I'll try to keep it away from the buildings!

[People continue to scream. Mr. Incredible pushes the drill to turn it. One of the blades pick up a car and throw it into the air.]

Dash: Hey, lady!

[The car crashes after Dash moves the old lady.]

Old Lady: Thank you so much, young man. [Dash fixes her glasses]

[Jack-Jack cooing while being rolled in his stroller. He is then handed off to Dash]

Dash: What? VIOLET!

[While invisible, Violet goes through some steam before becoming visible. Mr. Incredible tries to stop the wheel from turning, but gets run over.]

Mr. Incredible: [grunting] AH!

[Then, he tries to hold on to the wheel while dragging his feet. Elastigirl jumps on the road to stop traffic.]

Elastigirl: Stop! [The cars stop.] Everybody, stop! [The other cars stop.]

[The gigantic miner drill destroys the road. Mr. Incredible tries to stop the gigantic miner drill. Violet then uses her force field to save people from fall debris. While Mr. Incredible tries to stop the drill, a lamppost attached to some concrete falls right next to him. He picks it up and tries to use it to stop the drill. It ends up breaking.]

Dash: Heads up, Dad! [gives Jack-Jack to Mr. Incredible.]

Mr. Incredible: [annoyed at his son] Dash!

Elastigirl: VIOLET! Who's watching Jack-Jack?!

Violet: Dash is watching him!

Mr. Incredible: Violet, here, you take him! [hands Jack-Jack to Violet]

[Elastigirl lands inside the gigantic miner drill and spots the boiler.]

Mr. Incredible: It's headed for City Hall!

Dash: Mom needs help!

[The Parr’s climb into the drill.]

Winston: They're out in public again! This is our chance! Follow them, follow Frozone!

[Frozone tries to freeze the gigantic miner drill. Elastigirl stretches herself out.]

Elastigirl: [straining] BOB! HELP ME WITH THE BOILER!

[Mr. Incredible pushes the boiler out. Frozone tries to put an ice wall in front of the gigantic miner drill to buy time. Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl push the boiler out of place.]

Elastigirl: That should do it! [gasps] WHAT ARE YOU KIDS DOING?! GET OUTTA HERE! THIS THING'S GONNA BLOW!

Violet: There's no time!

[Violet creates a giant force field around the Parr Family. The blade is just barely touching the top of city hall and then the police show up. Knowing he’d get in trouble, Frozone ran off.]

The Parr family: [laughs]

Dash: We did it!

[The top door opens and the Parr family look up.]

Officer: FREEZE, SUPERS!

Mr. Incredible: Oh, what did we do?

[People exclaiming about the Parr Family getting arrested. Frozone goes to an ally way.]

Tommy: Excuse me! Mr...Zone?

[Frozone freezes his Tommy’s feet in place.]

Frozone: Sorry, but I'm not really supposed to be here.

Tommy: Which seems wrong... doesn't it? Perhaps you'd be interested in...changing that law?

Scene 2- Interrogation
Reporter: Superheroes including Frozone, Mr. Incredible, and Elastigirl caused further damage to the city. The Underminer remains at large.

[In the interrogation room, the officers look as two furious detectives scold Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl who furiously glare back at them, not liking what they were telling them.]

Mr. Incredible: [angrily] WE DIDN'T start this fight!!

Detective #1: Well, you didn't finish it either!!

Detective #2: Did you stop the Underminer from inflicting more damage?

Mr. Incredible: No.

Detective #2: Did you stop him from robbing the banks?!

Mr. Incredible: No.

Detective #2: Did you CATCH HIM?!?

Mr. Incredible: [shouts with rage] NO!!!

Detective #1: The banks were insured. We have infrastructure that placed a deal with these matters. If you had basically done NOTHING, everything would now be proceeding in an orderly fashion!

Mr. Incredible: [outraged and disgusted] You'd have prefer we'd do NOTHING?!

Detective #2: [rudely] Without a doubt!

[Mr. Incredible scowls as the detectives leave. Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl then stare at Rick who had calmly sat through it all.]

Mr. Incredible: You weren't much help.

Rick: You want out of the hole? First, you gotta put down the shovel.

[Later that day, the Parrs are riding to the motel in a black van. They all, excpet for Jack-Jack who is happily asleep, frown how their day had been.]

Bob: Well, that went poorly.

Violet: Dad, this is probably not the best time to tell you about this...but something else happened today with a kid...and my mask.


Advertisement
Scene 3- Bad News
[They stop at the motel and the Parrs get out. Bob goes over to Rick]

Bob: Oh, hey, Rick. Violet thinks a friend of hers, a kid named Tony...might have seen her in the outfit, without her mask.

Rick: Talkative type?

Bob: Don't know. Last name is Rydinger.

Rick: Tony Rydinger. I'll check it out. [Bob starts to walk away] Bob, Helen...a word if you don't mind. Uh, the program's been shut down.

Bob: [shocked] What?

Rick: Politicians don't understand people who do good simply because it's right. It makes 'em nervous. They've been gunning for Supers for years. Today was all they needed. Anyway, I'm done. I'm afraid two more weeks in the motel is the best I can do for ya. It ain't much.

Helen: You've done plenty, Rick. [Helen hugs Rick]

Bob: We won't forget.

Rick: Well, it has been a great honor working with you good people.

Bob: Thanks for everything, and good luck. [Bob and Rick shake hands]

Rick: Yeah. You, too.

[Rick leaves]

Scene 4- Dinner Argument
[Helen carries Jack-Jack to the dinner table.]

Violet: (to Dash) Did you wash your hands?

[Dash runs to the sink.]

Violet: With... soap?

[Dash runs to the sink again.]

Violet: Did you dry them?

[Dash shakes his hands to dry them and then eats. Then Helen puts some food next to Dash.]

Dash: WHAT?! Is this all vegetables? Who ORDERED all vegetables?!

Helen: I did. They're good and you're gonna have some. [She puts some vegetables on Dash’s plate.]

Violet: Are we going to talk about it?

Bob: What?

Violet: The elephant in the room.

Bob: [puzzled, about this "elephant" she spoke of] What elephant?

Violet: I guess not then.

Helen: You're referring to today.

Dash: Yeah, what's the deal with today?

Helen: We all made mistakes. For example: you kids were supposed to watch Jack-Jack.

Violet: Babysitting, while you guys did the important stuff.

Helen: We talked about this. You're not old enough to decide about these things.

Violet: We are old enough to help out.

Dash: Yeah!!

Violet: Isn't that what you tell us, Dad?

Bob: Yeah, well, "help out" can mean many different things.

Violet: But we're supposed to help, if there's trouble.

Bob: Well, yeah, but...

Violet: Aren't you glad we helped today?

Bob: Yeah, I know but...

Violet: You said that you were proud of us.

Bob: Well, yeah, I was—AM!

Dash: We wanna fight bad guys!

Jack-Jack: [babbles mockingly, thinking they were playing]

Helen: No, you don't!

Violet: You said things were different now.

Helen: And they were...on the island. But I didn't mean that from now on...

Violet: So now, we gotta go back to "never using our powers!"

Dash: It defines who I am!

Bob: We're not saying you have...[confused by what his son said] What?

Dash: Someone on TV said it.

Helen: Can we just eat the dinner, while it's hot?

Dash: Did we do something wrong?

Helen: Yes./Bob: No.

[Helen glares at her husband, but he refuses to accept changes]

Bob: We didn't do anything wrong.

Helen: Superheroes are illegal. Whether it's fair or not, that's the law.

Bob: The law should be fair. What are we teaching our kids?

Helen: To respect the law!

Bob: Even when the law is disrespectful?!

Helen: If laws are unjust, there are laws to change them! OTHERWISE, it's CHAOS!

Bob: [booming] Which is EXACTLY WHAT WE HAVE!

[Helen slams the table, making food jolt. Bob takes a bite from an egg roll.]

Violet: I just thought it was kinda cool.

Helen: What was?

Violet: Fighting crime, as a family.

Helen: [sighs] It was cool. But it's over. The world is what it is. We have to...adapt.

Dash: Are things...bad?

Helen: Things are fine.

Dash: [eats faster] May I be excused? [runs over; and watches TV]

Violet: How much longer in the motel, Dad?

Bob: Uh...

Helen: Not much longer, honey.


Advertisement
Scene 5- What's Next?
[Helen and Bob are sitting at the pool.]

Helen: What are we gonna do?

Bob: I don't know. Maybe Dicker will find something?

Helen: Dicker is done, Bob. Any thought we had about being Supers again is fantasy. One of us has gotta get a job.

Bob: “One of us"?

Helen: You did a long stint at Insuricare.

Bob: Hated every minute of it.

Helen: I know it was hard on you. Maybe it's my turn at in the private sector and you take care of the kids...

Bob: No, I'm doing this. I need to do this. You know where my suit and ties are?

Helen: Burned up when...

Both: The jet destroyed our house.

Helen: (chuckles) Yeah. We can't count on anyone else now, Bob. It's just us. We can't wait for—

(Helen and Bob hear a door bang. They look around for a bit and see someone coming.)

Lucius: No lifeguard on duty! Swim at your own risk.

Bob: Oh, where'd you go today? I noticed you missed all the "fun".

Lucius: Don't be mad because I know when to leave a party. I'm just as illegal as you guys. Besides, I knew the cops would let you go.

Helen: Yeah, in spite of Bob's best efforts.

Bob: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Lucius: I heard the program shut down. How much longer are you in this motel?

Bob: Two weeks.

Lucius: Now, you know the offer still stands.

Helen: You're very generous, but there are five of us. We wouldn't do that to you and Honey.

Lucius: Well, door's always open. You know, the news isn't all bad. While you guys were being...detained, I was approached by a dude who represents this tycoon. (gives Bob and Helen a business card)

Bob: Winston Deavor.

Lucius: Wants to talk with me, with you two, about hero stuff. I checked him out. He's legit. Trained under Dicker. He wants to meet.

Helen: Ah, jeez! More superhero trouble. We just came from the police station, Lucius.

Bob: When?

Lucius: Tonight. I'm going there now. [opens his jacket to reveal his supersuit underneath]

Helen: You enjoy, I'm sitting this one out. (gives the business card back to Lucius)

Lucius: He wants all three of us.

Bob: Honey, let's just at least hear what he has to say.

Lucius: You got the address, I'll meet you guys there.

Helen: Go in our Supersuits?

Lucius: Yeah. Might wanna wear the old Supersuits. Got a feeling he's nostalgic.

[Helen and Bob are ready to leave and say bye to their kids.]

Violet: Where are you going?

Bob: (as he opens the door) The fresh air is especially good tonight.

Helen:If Jack-Jack wakes up...

Violet: I know the drill.

(As Bob and Helen walk out the door, Violet notices Helen’s boots before they close the door.)

Scene 6- Meeting the Deavors
(Elastigirl, Mr. Incredible, and Frozone get out of the car with their supersuits.)

Man: (opens the door to let everyone out) Your security badges. Please, this way. (stops Frozone) Hey, listen, you're my biggest fan.

Frozone: Good to see you.

Man: (stammering) I'm-I'm your biggest fan. Shoot!

(They all go up in an elevator and then go into a room.)

Winston: I LOVE superheroes! The powers, the costumes, the mythic struggles. Winston Deavor. You can call me Win. Genuine pleasure to meet you. Frozone!

Frozone: It's good to see you.

Winston: Elastigirl.

Elastigirl: Nice to meet you.

Winston: Mr. Incredible!

Mr. Incredible: Hello.

Winston: (starts singing Mr. Incredible’s theme song) 🎶 Mr. Incredible, Incredible, 🎶

Mr. Incredible and Winston: 🎶 Incredible. Catching the bad guys. Pow, pow, pow! 🎶 (both laugh)

Winston: (turns to Frozone and starts singing his theme song) 🎶'Who's the cat Who's always chill, (off screen while Evelyn comes in) when survival odds Are close to nil? 🎶

Frozone and Winston: 🎶 Frozone, Frozone, Frozone! 🎶

Frozone: Yeah!

(Everyone laughs)

Winston: Can't tell you what a thrill this is. And this...

Evelyn: Oh, hello there, superheroes. I'm so sorry I'm late.

Winston: ...is my tardy sister, Evelyn.

Evelyn: And I'm scolding myself so you don't have to, Winston!

Winston: Spectacular. My father was so proud that I was even remotely connected to you guys. He used to call you the last line of defense. He was your top supporter. (Cuts to flashback of Winston’s father) He donated to superhero causes. He raised money for the Dynaguy statue in Avery Park. He got to know many Supers personally. Even installed a phone with direct lines to Gazerbeam and Fironic in case of emergencies. He loved that, showed it off to everyone. (Back to present) He was heartbroken when you were all forced to go underground.

Evelyn: Father believed the world would become more dangerous without you.

Winston: He didn't know how right he was. (Cuts back to flash back) There was a break-in. (Both parents gasp) My father called Gazerbeam. The direct line. No answer. He called Fironic, no answer. Superheroes had just been made illegal. The robbers discovered him on the phone, and shot him. (Gunshot) (back to present) So...

Elastigirl: It must've been hard.

Evelyn: Especially for Mother. She died a few months later. Heartbreak.

Winston: If superheroes had not been forced underground it never would've happened.

Evelyn: Or Dad could've taken mom to the safe room as soon as he knew there was trouble.

Winston: I disagree strongly!! But we're not going into it right now. The point is nobody expected us to be able to actually run Dad's company. But with Evelyn as designer, and myself as operator uh, we threw ourselves into building Devtech into what it is today.

Frozone: A world-class telecommunications company.

Winston: Bigger than ever. Perfectly positioned to make some wrong things right. Hence, this meeting. Let me ask you something: What is the main reason you were all forced underground?

Mr. Incredible: Ignorance.

Winston: Perception. Take today for example, with the Underminer. Difficult situation. You were faced with a lot of hard decisions.

Mr. Incredible: Oh, tell me about it.

Winston: I can't. Because I didn't see it. Neither did anyone else. So, when you fight bad guys like today, people don't see the fight or what led up to it. They see what politicians tell them to see. They see destruction and they see you. So, if we wanna change people's perceptions about superheroes, we need you to share your perceptions with the world.

Elastigirl: How do we do that?

Evelyn: With cameras. (Turns on recording)

Winston: “We need you to share your perceptions with the world.”

Elastigirl: “How do we do that?”

Evelyn: We embed tiny cameras, like those, into your supersuits.

Elastigirl: Wow, so small. And the picture is outstanding.

Evelyn: Thanks! Designed 'em myself.

Winston: We've got resources, lobbyists, worldwide connections and very important, insurance.

Mr. Incredible: Insurance is key.

Winston: All we need now are the super-est superheroes. It needs you three. Come on! Help me make all Supers legal again!

Mr. Incredible: This sounds great! Let's get this going. What's my first assignment?

Winston: That enthusiasm is golden. (chuckling) Now hold on to it. But for our first move, well, Elastigirl is our best play.

Mr. Incredible: Better than me?

(Annoyed, Elastigirl clears her throat)

Mr. Incredible: I mean, she's good. (stammering) She-uh-Really, a credit to her...but uh, You know. (chuckles nervously) You know.

Winston: With great respect let's not test the whole "insurance-will-pay-for-everything" idea on the first go 'round, okay?

(Frozone and Elastigirl try not to laugh.)

Mr. Incredible: Wait a minute. You're saying what? I'm messy?

Winston: Well, Evelyn did a cost-benefit analysis comparing all your last five years of crime fighting before going underground, and Elastigirl's numbers are self-explanatory.

Mr. Incredible: Well, it's not a fair comparison! Heavyweight problems need heavyweight solutions.

Winston: Of course! We're gonna solve all kinds of problems together. After the perfect launch with Elastigirl!

Evelyn: So, what do you say?

Elastigirl: What do I say? (chuckles) I...don't know.


Advertisement
Scene 7- Hard Decision
(In the motel with Bob in the bed and Helen brushing her teeth.)

Bob: What do you mean, you don't know? A few hours ago, you were saying it was over and being a superhero was a fantasy. (Cuts to Helen) Now, you get the offer of a lifetime and you don't know?

Helen: It's not that simple, Bob. I wanna protect the kids!

Bob: So, do, I.

Helen: From jail, Bob! (Spits out toothpaste)

Bob: And how do you do that? By turning down a chance to change the law that forces them to hide what they are?

Helen: They haven't decided what they are. They're still kids.

Bob: Kids with powers, which makes them Supers whether they decide to use those powers or not. This will benefit them.

Helen: Look, it’s not a good time to be away. Dash is having trouble with homework, Vi is worried about her first date with that boy she likes, Tony, and Jack-Jack...

Bob: Jack-Jack? What's wrong with him?

[Helen shruggs. She had failed to notice Jack-Jack's powers since the first movie]

Helen: OK, nothing's wrong with Jack-Jack. But even a normal baby needs a lot of attention. I'm just not sure I can leave.

Bob: Of course you can leave. You've got to. So that I—we can be Supers again, so our kids can have that choice.

Helen: (scoffs) So you can have that choice.

Bob: All right, yes! So I can have that choice. And I would do a Great JOB! Regardless of what Deavor's pie charts say or whatever...But they want you. (strained) And you'll do a great...job...too.

Helen: (inhales sharply) Well, that was excruciating to watch. (Bob chuckles) I can't lie to you. It's nice to be wanted. Flattering, you know, but...

Bob: But what's the choice? One, do this right, get well paid, we're out of the motel and things get better for all Supers, including our kids. Or two...I find a job in two weeks or we're homeless.

Helen: You know it's crazy, right? To help my family, I gotta leave it. To fix the law, I gotta break it.

Bob: You'll be great.

Helen: I know I will. But what about you? We have kids.

Bob: I'll watch the kids, no problem. Easy.

Helen: Easy, huh? You're adorable. Well, if there is a problem, I'll drop this thing and come right back.

Bob: You won't need to. (Lays on his side) I got it, you go do this thing. Do it so...I can do it better. (Helen hits him with a pillow.)

(At Devtech, the phone rings)

Winston: Deavor here.

Helen: This is Elastigirl. I'm in.


Advertisement
Scene 8- New House
(The Parr family is in a black car going to their new house.)

Helen: (on the phone) Mr. Deavor, it's wonderful but (cuts to Winston) it's too generous.

Winston: Nonsense! That's the least we can do. We're partners now! Can't have my partners living in a motel.

Helen: (stammers) But w-whose house? Is it a house?

Winston: (off screen) It's my house. I have several. I'm not using that one. Stay as long as you need.

Helen: I don't know what to say.

Bob: How about "thanks"?

(They enter the giant mansion.)

Dash: This is our new house?!

Helen: (chuckles) Okay, easy, tiger. It's being loaned to us.

Violet: (groans) This is homey.

Bob: Look at this place. Deavor bought it from an eccentric billionaire who liked to come and go without being seen so the house has multiple hidden exits.

(Dash starts using his super speed to explore the mansion.)

Violet: Good thing we won't stand out. Wouldn't want to attract any unnecessary attention.

Dash: It's got a big yard!

Helen: Isn't this a bit much?

Dash: Near a forest!

Bob: Would you rather be at the motel?

Dash: AND A POOL! (Dash jumps into the pool)

Violet: What exactly is Mom's new job?

Bob: The important thing is we're out of the motel.

Dash: I LIKE MOM'S NEW JOB! (Dash shakes some of the water off. Dash spots the remote and presses some buttons.) (gasps) Wah oh, ho, ho!

(A river opens up in front of Helen and Bob)

Bob: Whoa! (Helen and Bob chuckle)

Dash: Whoa!

(Dash presses another button making waterfalls)

Bob: Well, check out the water features.

(Helen chuckles)

Bob: (chuckles) Oh!

Helen: Wow.

(A small pathway opens up in the middle of the waterfall and Helen and Bob walk across.)

Dash: Wicked cool!

(Dash presses another button making a couch rise and the fire place lit. He presses another button making the TV go up. He presses yet another button but opens another river under the couches, making them fall in.)

Bob: Hey! Dash! Stop it!

Dash: (groans) (He keeps pressing buttons to try to fix it but makes things worse.)

Helen: Not the couch! Stop it!

Bob: No! Dash! Stop! Don't touch the buttons!

Dash: The couch!

Helen: Dash!

Bob: No! No, NO!

(Dash quickly puts back the remote and runs off.)


Advertisement
Scene 9- New Elasticycle
Helen: (offscreen) Oh, no. Oh, boy. This isn't me. (stammering) W-what is thi- (comes onscreen) I'm Elastigirl. I'm, you know, flexible. I mean, look at the-the...

Bob: E designed this?

Helen: No, some guy named Alexander Galbaki.

Bob: (chuckling) Glad it's you and not me, 'cause you're gonna hear from her. This note came with it.

Helen: What?

(Helen reads the note from Evelyn and it says "Elastigirl, There's an accessory in the garage... -Evelyn".)

(Cuts to Helen and Bob in the garage.)

Helen: (gasps) A new Elasticycle.

Bob: Elasticycle? I didn't know you had a bike.

Helen: (Helen gets onto the Elasticycle) Hey, I had a mohawk. There's a lot about me you don't know.

Bob: Yeah, but...a mohawk?

Helen: Ah, you didn't miss anything. (Elasticycle powering up) Oh, yeah! This one's electric.

Bob: Wh-what's that mean?

Helen: (the Elasticycle starts to get a bit of a power boost) Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Oh! (Helen bumps into the wall) Means it's torque-y. I'll get the hang of it.

Bob: You will be great.

Helen: I will be great. And you will, too.

Bob: We will both be great. (Bob pushes a button and the waterfall at the exit opens up)

Helen: Bye, sweetie. (She races off out of the garage and onto a secret passageway) WHOOO!!! (Laughs in delight) (She gets onto the highway) WHOOO!!!

(Helen passes a bunch of cars and soon is right next to one with 3 people.)

Woman: Wait a minute! Is that Elastigirl?

Man: I think that's Elastigirl. (Honks horn) HEY! ELASTIGIRL! (Everyone cheers for her)

(Elastigirl drives ahead)

Man: Marry me, Elastigirl!

Winston: (starts singing Elastigirl’s theme song) 🎶 Here comes Elastigirl, stretching her... 🎶

Elastigirl: Ha-ha! No theme songs or I'll turn this bus right around!

(They are all flying on a jet to fight crime.)

Winston: Look at that. New Urbem. You wanna make a big crime fighting statement you go where the crime is big.

Elastigirl: Strange thing to be excited about, Winston.

Winston: It's like a superhero's playground!


Advertisement
Scene 10- The Bus is Here!
(Dash runs to the table to eat breakfast and spots some Sugar Bombs cereal and tries to pour it into his bowl.)

Bob: No Sugar Bombs on my watch. (Bob takes away the Sugar Bombs and pours some Fiber-o’s in Dash’s bowl.)

Dash: Where's Mom?

Bob: She's up and out. She's at her new job doing hero work.

Violet: But I thought superheroes were still illegal.

Bob: They are, for now.

Violet: So Mom is getting paid to break the law?

Bob: She's not breaking...she’s an advocate for superheroes. It's a new job.

Violet: So, Mom is going out illegally to explain why she shouldn't be illegal.

Bob: (as the school bus arrives) Hey...HEEEEY! THE BUS IS HERE! (The School bus honks) Whoa! Grab your stuff quickly! Go on, get on the...

(Dash and Violet run to the bus. Bob catches up to put in Dash’s homework in his backpack.)

Bob: Put your homework in your pack! Bye-bye! (He comes back inside and picks up Jack-Jack) We're gonna get along just fine cos you don't ask any hard questions.

(Jack-Jack then defecates in his diaper and Bob sighs in frustration.)

Scene 11- Waiting for Crime
(Cuts to Elastigirl in an ally waiting for a crime to happen)

Officer 1: (through speaker) All right. All locations, we need to know where you want us.

Officer 2: (through speaker) Stand by.

Elastigirl: Seems strange to wait for crime.

Winston: (shows Winston and Evelyn in a van) Relax. You're smack in the middle of the worst crime area in the city. It's perfect. It's a superhero's playground.

Elastigirl: “It’s a superhero’s playground.” Right. You know, after we went underground my husband used to listen to a police scanner waiting for something to happen. And I got mad at him for it. (Winston and Evelyn laughing) Oh, I'm such a hypocrite.

Dispatcher: All units.

Elastigirl: Something's up.

Dispatcher: We've been picking up some chatter about potential disruptions to the hovertrain's opening ceremony.

Officer: Disruption or threat?

Dispatcher: Both. Station's at Fifty-Fourth and Nottingham.

Winston: (Gasps) A potential threat! Perfect! Fifty-fourth and Nottingham. Go, go, go! (Elastigirl races off)

Scene 12- Taking Care of the Kids
Bob: Hey, Vi! I want you back here by 10:30.

Violet: 11-ish?

Bob: 10-ish, heading for 9:30-ish.

Violet: 10:30-ish it is. (sighs)

Bob: Enjoy the movie. (Cuts to Bob reading a bedtime story for Jack-Jack) “In the county of Noddoff the Frubbers of Freep are all giving in to the sweet succor of sleep.”

(Jack-Jack falls asleep and Bob tucks him in bed. Bob sits down and tries to watch TV but Dash walks in front of it showing his math book, in other words, he needs help with homework. Then, it cuts to Bob trying to understand Dash’s homework.)

Dash: That's not the way you're supposed to do it, Dad. They want us to do it this way. (Shows his math book)

Bob: I don't know that way! Why would they change math?

Dash: It's okay, Dad.

Bob: Math is math! MATH! IS! MATH!

Dash: I'll just wait for Mom to get back.

Bob: What?! She won't understand it any better than I do...

(Bob hears the TV running and goes to see why it’s on. He sees Jack-Jack watching it. Bob read the bedtime story again.)

Bob: "All over Doozle-Dorf, the Fribbers of Frupp are going to sleep ‘cause they just can't keep up. All over Doozle-Dorf, are dozing. Eyelids so heavy, they're drooping...” (Bob starts to fall asleep but Jack-Jack wakes him up again.) “Closing! The point is: Everyone, everyone's hitting the sack! Everyone's getting the sleep that they lack.”


Advertisement
Scene 13- Runaway Train
(Elastigirl is waiting at the train station while they open the hovertrain.)

Mayor: Mayors often brag about their cities (chuckles) and I'm no exception. And I'm willing to admit that New Urbem is not the only city...

Elastigirl: Are you sure the police are gonna be okay with this?

Evelyn: (through speaker) Sure. You're making life easy for them.

Elastigirl: They still haven't forgiven us for the last time we made life easy for them.

Winston: I know the Chief of Police. There won't be a problem.

Evelyn: With all due respect, if you alone had handled the Underminer things would have been different. I'm just saying.

Mayor: ...on budget and ahead of schedule to launch our magnificent new hovertrain. It can get you where you need to go at ridiculous speeds. The future is open for business! (Cuts ribbon)

(The hovertrain starts to leave but then stops.)

Elastigirl: Wait. The train has stopped. (The train starts going backwards.) It's going the wrong direction.

Mayor: It's going the wrong way.

Elastigirl: I'm going after it. (She races off to catch up with the train) This thing's really moving. 100 and climbing. How much track is built?

Evelyn: About 25 miles.

(Elastigirl continues to race down the road passing cars but soon slightly hits a car but little damage is caused.)

Elastigirl: No one can shut this thing down?

Evelyn: They've tried. No-go.

Man: Is that Elastigirl?

(The police try to follow the train but is stuck in traffic.)

Elastigirl: Overrides!?

Evelyn: They're locked out of the system.

Elastigirl: (she separates her Elasticycle and stretches her body and hops over traffic, using back part of her bike as momentum.) What about a fail-safe?

Evelyn: Not enough time!

Elastigirl: (The Elasticycle starts ringing) Someone's calling! Switching over!

(Call switch to Bob and Dash)

Dash: Hey, Mom. I can't find my high-tops and Dad can't find them either. But he won't call you and ask, so I am.

Bob: (in background) Do NOT call your mother!

Elastigirl: Dash, honey. Can't talk right now, but look under your bed, okay.

(Call switches back to Evelyn)

Elastigirl: How much time?!

Evelyn: Less than two minutes! There's a shortcut. Cut through the culvert up ahead!

(Elastigirl cuts across the road and goes through the culvert. She then goes through a window and rides through a building.)

Elastigirl: I don't know if I can stay with it!

(She separates her bike again and hops to another building. She keeps hopping from building to building until she sees another way to catch up to the train. She hops onto a building frame and then gets onto a crane. She drives off of the crane and then onto the side of a building, and then onto a billboard. Then she hops on the train but almost falls off. She tries to get to the front but spots the tunnel, then she separates her bike and one part of it is on one side of the tunnel, and the other part of the bike on the other side. Soon, Elastigirl gets to the front of the train and turns into a parachute to get on the top. She gets on her side but she sees another tunnel and didn't have time to avoid it, so she through the Elasticycle into the air and it exploded on the top of the tunnel. Elastigirl laid flat until the train passed the tunnel. She quickly gets to where the driver is and knocks on the glass but fails to get his attention. Then she uncouples the car with the driver in it from the other cars. The emergency brakes come on. She hops onto the passenger cars and makes a parachute to slow it down. The train stops with the first car half-on half-off the rails. The car with the driver is still going backwards and bumps into the other cars. The train moves a little more but stays on the rails. Elastigirl goes into the car and confront the driver.)

Passenger: What the heck was that?

Elastigirl: Is everybody all right? Is anybody injured? Are you all right? (talks to the driver) Your story better be good. (tries to get him to focus) Hey. Hey!

Driver: What happened?

(Elastigirl turns around to see a message on the screen. The screen says: "Welcome back, Elastigirl. -The Screenslaver")

Scene 14- Jack-Jack's Powers
(At the house, Bob tucks Jack-Jack in bed again, but he puts a table and some books on top of his crib to keep him from escaping. Then he sees Violet sitting on the floor sadly.)

Bob: Honey, why are y-

Violet: Don't say anything. (goes upstairs to her room)

Bob: (knocks on Violet's door) It's Dad. Are you okay?

Violet: (through the door) I'm fine. I don't wanna talk about it.

Bob: Tony didn't even call?

Violet: I don't wanna talk about it.

Bob: Oh, honey...

Violet: Dad! If you want me to feel better, then leave me alone. Please?

(Bob then hears the TV running and goes to check it out. He sees Jack-Jack on the couch again watching TV. Bob then sits with him and soon falls asleep with Jack-Jack still watching. Jack-Jack watches a movie where someone is robbing a jewelry store. Jack-Jack then sees a raccoon (named Rocky) outside eating in the garbage and notices Rocky's black part of fur that looks like a mask. Jack-Jack noticed that the robber had a mask, so he mistakes Rocky as a criminal. He goes through the glass door that leads to the back yard and takes the food and throws it in the garbage and then he puts the lid on with his mind. Rocky and Jack-Jack start fighting without Bob noticing because he's asleep. Jack-Jack kicks Rocky and he gets tangled in one of the outside chairs. Jack-Jack then turns into fire and goes to Rocky. Jack-Jack throws a flaming table to where Rocky was. Jack-Jack checks to see if he got Rocky but Rocky isn't there. Rocky knocks down a grill and puts coal dust everywhere. Jack-Jack then gets laser eyes and follows Rocky who's trying to avoid the lasers. Rocky climbs onto an umbrella but Jack-Jack breaks it, causing it to fall. Rocky then leaps onto Jack-Jack but he turns into soft slimy material. Bob wakes up from the noise and sees Jack-Jack fighting Rocky. Shocked and frantic, Bob rushes outside, yelling: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no!" and picks up his son but Jack-Jack duplicates and hops on top of Rocky. Bob picks up Jack-Jack and his duplicates and Jack-Jack is back into one. Rocky then leaves.)

Bob: You have... POWERS! YEAH, BABY! And there's not a scratch on you! (playfully) Did you go through the locked door? Are those your powers? (chuckles) Who can multiply like rabbits and go right through any...solid...(Jack-Jack sneezes and briefly turns into fire, gets electrical, and shoots laser eyes.) Oh, my God...


Advertisement
Scene 15- Helen calls Bob
(Bob hears the phone ring.)

Bob: Hello?

Helen: Hey, honey. You weren't gonna call me?

Bob: Oh, hey! (stammering) No. I mean, yes, yeah...I just didn't wanna wake you. (he puts Jack-Jack down) The strangest thing just happened out in the yard.

Helen: Sounds like I just woke you up.

Bob: No, no. It's just, Jack-Jack...

Helen: He had an injury! I knew it! I'm coming home right now! I never should hav-

Bob: No, no, no injury. Stay there and finish your mission. You never should-should have...what? You don't think I can do this?

Helen: No, no. Sorry. I misspoke. Do you need me to come back?

Bob: No, no. No, I've got this. Everything's great.

Helen: What happened with Jack-Jack?

Bob: Nothing. He's in excellent health.

(Violet’s in the background crying while getting ice cream from the freezer.)

Helen: Well, that's good. How was Violet's date?

Bob: Uh...

Helen: That was tonight, right?

Bob: Yes. Good. All fine and...good.

Helen: And Jack-Jack went down with no trouble?

Bob: (sees Jack-Jack looking at Rocky through the window) Fine, yes, no trouble.

Helen: And Dash got his homework done?

Bob: (turns to see Dash sleeping with unfinished homework) All done.

Helen: So, things haven't spiraled out of control the moment I left?

Bob: Amazing as it may seem, it has been quite uneventful in fact. How about you?

Helen: I SAVED A RUNAWAY TRAIN! (laughing in utter joy) It WAS so GREAT! The mayor was there to cut the ribbon on this new train.

(Bob quickly turns on the TV to see the news)

Reporter 1: Elastigirl pursued the train and was able to successfully activate...

Helen: Blah, blah, blah. He says a few words, cuts the ribbon and the train starts pulling out of the station BACKWARDS...

Reporter 2: ...track of its brand new hovertrain...

(Bob keeps switching channels to see many of them talking about Elastigirl stopping the train.)

Helen: BOOM! NO, CASUALTIES! (squeals)

(Bob turns off the TV)

Helen: One thing leads to another and suddenly, I go after it! I'm telling you, honey, it was a saga!!!

Bob: (through his teeth) That's fantastic, honey! And on your first night! I am so proud of you, really. (Slams head onto the counter)

Helen: I'm proud of you, honey. I know you want to get out there and you will soon. And you'll be amazing. I couldn't have done this if you hadn't taken over so well. Thanks for handling everything.

Bob: It's nothing.

Helen: (Sighs) I love you, honey. I'll be back soon. Sweet dreams.

Bob: Sweet dreams, honey. (They hang up)

(Bob tucks Dash and Jack-Jack in bed.)

Scene 16- Do I Know You?
(Bob's in bed having trouble falling asleep)

Bob: (mumbling while Imitating Dash) "Hey, Dad, it's okay. I'll just wait for Mom to get home." As if she could...I know how to...I can do math. Oh, brother...(Imitates Dash again) "Wait for Mom!" (gets up from bed) What am I, a substitute parent? It's not my fault they changed math. (goes to wake up Dash) Come on, buddy. Come on. I think I understand your math assignment. We still have some time to finish it before your test. (cuts to Bob and Dash at the table) So first, you wanna put all the numbers by themselves on one side.

Bob: ...you change the sign. That means a plus becomes a minus and a minus... You got it? Yeah, baby!

(At Violet's school, Tony gets his stuff from his locker and then closes it to see Violet behind it.)

Tony: Oh. Uh, hello.

Violet: We're in a new house. I did write my address on your locker in permanent ink.

Tony: Oh, is that what that is?

Violet: Did you forget?

Tony: Forget...what?

Violet: (chuckles) That's funny. Points for funny. Oh, was it the weird outfit? (chuckles) Because there's a reason. I'm in a drama class and they just wanna do Shakespeare but they're like, "Try to make it relevant for the kids." So, like, "Oh, superheroes! Kids love superheroes."

Tony: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Violet: You wanna wear one kind of tights and then they're like, "No, wear these other kind of tights."

Tony: (stammers) D-do I know you?

(Violet angrily walks out.)


Advertisement
Scene 17- Ambassador Ambush
Chad: (on the TV) Many say your speech today is critical.

Ambassador: Both sides just want the best for their people. We are so close to finally getting peace in the region.

Elastigirl: I haven't done this in a while.

Winston: This is good. The train gives us momentum. Just go out there and be your charming self and capitalize on it.

Producer: Ms. Elastigirl, they're ready for you.

Evelyn: Hey, stretch a leg.

Ambassador: Thank you, Chad. It was fun.

Bodyguard: Ambassador, your documents. we're moving to the rooftop.

Elastigirl: Oh, Madame Ambassador, hello!

Ambassador: Oh, you are Elastigirl! (shakes her hand) This is why now I'm shaking your hand. It was so sad when you went underground. I am glad to see you back in your shiny outfit.

Elastigirl: That means so much coming from you. Good luck with your speech.

Bodyguard: This way, Ambassador.

Elastigirl: (stammers) Bring...lasting peace!

Ambassador: I will, when you defeat evil.

Elastigirl: (chuckles) Okay.

Cameraman: Three, two...

Chad: For over 15 years, superheroes have been in hiding. Forced into it by a society no longer willing to support them. That may soon be changing due to a growing movement to bring the Supers back. Here, fresh on the heels of her own heroic save of a runaway train and sporting a new look, is the superhero, Elastigirl. Welcome!

Elastigirl: Hello, Chad.

Chad: All the polls are going in your direction.

Elastigirl: That's true. Things are good--

Chad: Hello.

Elastigirl: Uh, hello?

Chad: Do I have your attention?

Elastigirl: Yes, Chad. (notices something reflecting in Chad's eyes)

Chad: Of course I do. I'm appearing on your screen. Reading the words I'm saying off of another screen. (Elastigirl turns around but blocks the screen to keep from getting hypnotized) Screens are everywhere. We are controlled my screens. (Elastigirl runs into another room.) And screens are controlled by me, Screenslaver.

Elastigirl: Hey! (runs back)

Screenslaver: I control this broadcast and this...

Chad: ...idiotic anchorman you see before you.

Producer: What's wrong with him?

Evelyn: The signal's been hijacked. I'll check it out.

Elastigirl: Don't look at any monitors. (puts clipboard over the producer's face. Then she runs to Chad and slaps him.)

Chad: I could hijack the ambassador's aerocade while it's still airborne. Right, Elastigirl?

(Elastigirl runs to the hallway.)

Elastigirl: Nearest window! Where's the nearest window?!

Employee: Here! (points to a room)

(Elastigirl throws a chair and breaks the window. She sees that the helicopter has already taken off and she climbs up to the roof. The monitors are shut off and everyone's back to normal.)

Man 1: Oh, what's going on?

Man 2: Where's Elastigirl?

(Elastigirl's on the roof and sees 3 helicopters.)

Elastigirl: (groans) Which one?

(Elastigirl slingshots herself to one of the helicopters. She breaks the window and gets in.)

Pilot: Elastigirl! What are you doing here?

Elastigirl: The ambassador is in danger. Which chopper is she--LOOK OUT!

(She pushes the pilot's heads down and ducks before another helicopter breaks the front window.)

Elastigirl: Follow them and get me close! Get out of the sky, and touch down safely! (Jumps off and gets on the other helicopter. She's about to break in but almost gets shot.)

Ambassador: Stand down! (pushes her bodyguard's gun down) It's Elastigirl.

(Elastigirl breaks in)

Elastigirl: Stay in your seat, ma'am! (she can't open the door to the cockpit and sees the bodyguard's gun. She grabs it and shoots the door handle. She sees the pilots are hypnotized and punches the monitors.) We're under attack! Quick, go! Protect the ambassador! (she takes control of the helicopter) Open the door!

Ambassador: Do as she says!

Elastigirl: Can you all swim?

Pilots and bodyguard: Yeah!

Ambassador: No!

(Elastigirl kicks the Pilots and bodyguard out and they land in the river. She sees that the Ambassador is still in the helicopter. Then the other helicopter bumped into one of the jets, making it uncontrollable. She grabs the Ambassador and goes to the open door.)

Elastigirl: We're gonna have to slingshot! Hang on!

(Elastigirl slingshots them out. She turns into a parachute as they both land.)

Elastigirl: Are you all right, ma'am?

Ambassador: I'm perfectly fine...(The Ambassador faints but Elastigirl catches her.)

Scene 18- Violet Figures it Out
(In the Parr's mansion in the morning, Bob is making waffles)

Violet: (comes down stairs for breakfast in a very bad mood) Boys are jerks and superheroes suck.

Bob: Good morning!

Violet: He takes one look at me in that suit and decides to pretend he doesn't even know me.

Bob: Well, he's protecting himself. If he really did see you, it's best that he forget. It's better for you, too. (opens the fridge) I can't tell you how many memories Dicker's had to erase over the years when...someone figured out your mother's or my identity-- (Bob closes the fridge door and Violet appears behind it in anger.)

Violet: [roars] IT WAS DICKER!! YOU TOLD HIM ABOUT TONY!!!

Bob: Honey...

Violet: YOU HAD ME ERASED FROM TONY'S MIND!!!

(Violet goes upstairs to her room. Then, Jack-Jack spills his cereal and while Bob picks it up, she goes behind him to the sink with her supersuit.)

Violet: I HATE superheroes, and I RENOUNCE THEM!! (Violet puts her supersuit in the sink and she turns on the disposal, but the suit is still intact when she takes it out.) I RENOUNCE THEM--...AARGH!!! (Growling, Violet brutally throws the supersuit on the wall and she storms back upstairs into her room.)

Dash: Is she having adolescence?

(Then Violet slams the door.)

Scene 19- The Wannabe Supers
(Elastigirl's in a limo reading a newspaper in front of a crowd.)

Reporter: A new report out today shows that, when it comes to decision-making people have more trust in a monkey throwing darts than Congress.

Elastigirl: What's going on, Tommy? A protest?

Tommy: They're here in support.

Elastigirl: Support? Support of what?

Tommy: Well, in support of you.

(Elastigirl moves over and lowers her window)

Elastigirl: Wow. Oh, hey. Thanks for coming out. Hi. Oh, my goodness. Thanks so much. (sees a little girl with a sign that's turned around) Oh, hello. What does your sign say?

(The little girl turns the sign and it says "Screenslaver is still out there". Elastigirl's smile starts to fade after she read it.)

(Elastigirl goes into Winston's office.)

Winston: Talk to ya. Oh, what do ya know! Ellenwood. Oh, now you wanna return my calls about superheroes, huh? (sees Elastigirl come in) Oh. I'll have to call you back. (hangs up) Oh, that felt good. Felicia, hold my calls, please.

Winston: (to Elastigirl) He-hey! It's working! Hey, the ambassador made a big speech about superheroes today. Turns out saving someone's life makes a good impression on them. Who knew, huh? I'm getting calls from all over the world. Media awareness is up 72%. The push for superhero legalization is becoming a worldwide movement! I have big plans for our next move. We're gonna have a summit at sea. (shows Elastigirl the cruse ship) We'll use our ship, we'll gather leaders and Supers from all over the world-

Elastigirl: (cutting Winston off) That's great. I'm happy. I'm happy the numbers are up. I'm happy the ambassador is pro-superhero aaaannnd I'm happy you're happy.

Winston: I'm hearing that you're happy, but why am I not feeling it?

Elastigirl: Because I didn't get him! Screenslaver is still out there. All I did was play his game and win this round. He's gonna want more and as long as he gets to play, he wins.

Winston: One thing I've learned in business? Smell the flowers. They don't bloom that often. What do you want on your tombstone? "She worried a lot"?

Evelyn: All right, stop talking. Show her.

(Winston opens a door leading to the wannabe Supers. Everyone was talking until they see Elastigirl.)

Voyd: Oh, wow. Uh...Wow! Elastigirl, there you are.

Elastigirl: Hello.

Voyd: (stammers) I-I didn't. Wow! (to herself) Come on, get yourself together, Karen! (to Elastigirl) Hi, my superhero name is Voyd. I just wanna thank you, for, like, for being you! (stammering) And I ju-uh I just like-ugh. Okay, what I can do, um, is this.

(She picks up a mug and throws it in the air. Then she uses her portal power to transport it across the room. Then, Evelyn catches it.)

Voyd: (chuckles nervously) Yeah.

Elastigirl: That is impressive. Very...interdimensional.

Voyd: I felt like an outcast...before. But now, with you being you, I feel like...Yay, me. (hugs Elastigirl)

Winston: I flew them in from all over. They've all been in hiding. They have powers, secret identities and names they've given themselves.

Screech: I'm Screech. It's a pleasure. I've always considered you the gold standard for superheroes. (holds his hand out to shake)

Elastigirl: Well, thanks. You're too nice.

Brick: I am called Brick.

Elastigirl: Nice to meet you, B-brick. Uh, where are you from?

Brick: Wisconsin.

(Cuts to Elastigirl sitting with He-Lectrix and Screech.)

Elastigirl: Oh. Elastigirl. I assume your powers are...

He-Lectrix: You know, zapping things electrically, charging things, bolts of lightning, that kind of stuff.

Reflux: Name's Reflux. Medical condition or superpower, you decide. (chuckles) That's a little line I say just to put people at ease. Hope I don't offend.

Elastigirl: Oh, no, no, no. Reflux. Love it.

(Later, Krushauer is drinking soda and crushes the can without touching it.)

Winston: Yes, that is impressive. Keep practicing.

(Then Winston touches He-Lectrix's shoulder and his hand gets shocked. Then he passes Reflux who's sleeping.)

Winston: Well, I'm beat. Congratulations. Big day. Good night, ladies. I will see you tomorrow.

Evelyn: Good night. (to Elastigirl) Must be nice for you, being out front after all this time.

Elastigirl: Out front?

Evelyn: Well, it's been a while since your superhero days and even then, you were kind of in Mr. Incredible's shadow.

Elastigirl: Nah, I beg to differ.

Evelyn: I'm not-I'm not saying you weren't big. No, you were-and are, a superstar but you have the stage to yourself now. And people have to pay attention.

Elastigirl: Oh, you mean, "It's a man's world" and all that? Well, what world do you live in? Your brother runs DevTech.

Evelyn: I don't want his job. I invent, he sells. I ask you, which of us has the greater influence?

Elastigirl: Which side of me are you asking? The believer or the cynic?

Evelyn: The cynic...

Elastigirl: Would say selling is more important because the best sellers have the most buyers. Doesn't matter what you're selling. It only matters what people buy.

Evelyn: This is true. If I discovered the origin of the universe, my brother would find a way to market it as a, uh, foot massager. (both laugh) So, what would the believer say?

Elastigirl: The believer would tell you to make your mark. Don't wait for permission, assert yourself and impose your will on the status quo.

Evelyn: Sounds like my brother.

Elastigirl: What?

Evelyn: You sound like my brother.

Elastigirl: Well, he's not wrong. There is an art to getting a reaction--Oh! I know how to get him!

Evelyn: My brother?

Elastigirl: Winst- ah No! Screenslaver! You're tech-savvy. I need to lock onto a signal and trace its origin. How fast can you slap something together and meet me at the airport?

Evelyn: Airport?

Elastigirl: Need to go out of town, pronto.

Evelyn: I can get your contraption together by 5:00 a.m.

Elastigirl: I need to get on TV. Chad!

Evelyn: I'll get my brother to set up an exclusive with him tonight on the newscast.

Elastigirl: Finish our interview by phone!

Evelyn: Promote the hell out of it!

Elastigirl: Independence from Screenslavery!

Evelyn: Chad tonight!

Both: Boom! (laughing)


Advertisement
Scene 20- The Happy Platter
(Rick is packing his stuff when his phone rings.)

Rick: Dicker.

Bob: Yeah, hey, Rick. You remember that kid I mentioned to you? Tony Rydinger.

Rick: Mind wipe? Yeah, nice kid.

Bob: Well, you also wiped out the Friday night date my daughter had with him. In fact, you wiped out my daughter.

Rick: Oops. Not an exact science, Bob.

Bob: Rick, you gotta help me here. Violet hates me, and you, and superheroes. I gotta fix this. What do you know about Tony?

Rick: Um...Not much. Seems like a good kid. Popular, plays sports, music. Parents own The Happy Platter, kid works there part time.

Bob: Happy Platter?

(cuts to The Happy Platter)

Violet: Why did we drive all the way across town for The Happy Platter?

Bob: (to hostess) We'd like a booth over there, near the philodendron. (to Dash and Violet) Good, right? Near the philodendron.

(They sit down at their table)

Violet: Well, this platter doesn't look all that happy to me. It looks bored.

Dash: Ha-ha! "The Bored Platter!"

Bob: I thought Vi would want a change of pace from drive-in food.

Violet: I like drive-in food.

(The waiter gives them cups and pours water)

Dash: Does this mean vegetables?

Bob: A balanced diet means vegetables, kiddo. Get used to it.

(Violet grabs her cup and drinks)

Tony: Good evening, everyone.

(Violet is so shocked to see that the waiter standing to her left is Tony that she chokes on her water and snorts it out of her nose onto the table. Violet turns red with embarrassment and immediately turns away from Tony, trying to hide from him by using her left hand to block the left side of her face that’s exposed. Violet starts to cough after choking on her water. Her nose, lips, and chin are wet from the water that sprayed out of her nose, her eyes become watery, and her nostrils are still dripping out leftover water.)

Tony: Woah!

Dash: (excitedly) Eww! Gross!

(Jack-Jack laughing hysterically)

Bob: Oh, no!

Tony: Is she all right?

Bob: Violet, are you OK?

Violet: (coughing) Nothing to see here.

Bob: Yeah, more napkins would be good.

Violet: I'm fine. (coughs) I'm fine! (continues coughing during Tony and Bob’s conversation)

Tony: Mops it right up.

Bob: Normally, she doesn't ever drip like this.

Tony: Would you like water, sir?

Bob: Yes. Yes, I would. This is my daughter...who you must know, right?

Violet: (stops coughing) God. Stop.

Tony: Hello.

Bob: (whispers) Violet.

Tony: Hello, Violet.

Bob: Hey, Vi, say hi to...

Violet: (teeth gritting in anger) Don't push it, Dad!

Dash: I'm Dash, her little brother. (holds his hand to shake)

Tony: Hello.

Bob: Mmm. This is really good water. It's very refreshing. Spring water, is it?

Tony: I don't know, sir. I think it's tap.

Bob: Well, it is very good.

Dash: Excellent tap.

Violet: Excuse me! (she gets up, and goes to the restroom)

Tony: Well, nice to meet you.

Bob: Where'd she go?

Dash: Mmm. To find a good place to be angry?


Advertisement
Scene 21- Screenslaver Fight
Chad: Tonight, we go now to a special remote interview with Elastigirl.

Elastigirl: (offscreen) How you feeling, Chad? You doing all right?

Chad: I'm fine. The doctors checked me out. (stammers) I-I have no memory of the event. I gotta tell you, it's pretty strange to see a recording (screen goes up to the roof to see Elastigirl on the antenna) of yourself the night before and have no recollection. I don't think anyone needs to worry. We've taken many precautions tonight though. Where are you right now?

Elastigirl: On a case, in a secure undisclosed location.

Chad: I wanna talk about you, starting with your save of a runaway train. Here's an exclusive unedited clip from your own suit cam. Roll the clip.

Elastigirl: (on the video) This thing's really moving. (cuts to people watching in front of a TV store) 100 and climbing. How much track is built?

Evelyn: (on the video) About 25 miles.

(The Screenslaver appears on the TV)

Screenslaver: The Screenslaver interrupts this program. for an important announcement.

(Shows Evelyn and Winston watching)

Evelyn: I'll be damned. She knew.

Winston: Let's see if your gadget works.

(Switches to Elastigirl tracking down the Screenslaver and then going towards him.)

Screenslaver: Don't bother watching the rest.

Elastigirl: Gotcha!

Screenslaver: Elastigirl doesn't save the day. She only postpones her defeat. And while she postpones her defeat you eat chips and watch her confront problems that you are too lazy to deal with. Superheroes are part of your brainless desire to replace true experience with simulation. You don't talk, you watch talk shows. You don't play games, you watch game shows. Travel, relationships, risk every meaningful experience must be packaged and delivered to you to watch at a distance. So that you can remain ever sheltered ever passive ever ravenous consumers who can't bring themselves to rise from their couches break a sweat and participate in life. You want superheroes to protect you and make yourselves ever more powerless in the process. While you tell yourselves you're being looked after. That your interests are being served. And your rights are being upheld. So that the system can keep stealing from you smiling at you all the while. Go ahead, send your Supers to stop me. Grab your snacks, watch your screens, and see what happens. You are no longer in control. I am.

(While the Screenslaver was doing his monologue, Elastigirl was able to find him. She ran and swing from building to building. Then, she slingshot herself and was gliding between buildings and landed. She climbed a building and noticed a bunch of wires. The wires led to a window that was glowing green. She slipped through a window with bars to avoid being seen. Now the monologue ended. After she got in, she tried to open the door but it was locked, so she put her hand under the door crack and unlocked the locks. She went in and saw many machines. She also saw models of eyes and hypnotic stuff. Then, she got a bit startled by a clock chiming. She went towards a pocket watch that was moving left and right. She soon discovered some blueprints. She turned on the lights to see them. Elastigirl spots a mannequin head on a table with a cloth on it. She uncovers it to see it has goggles on it.)

Screenslaver: Find anything?

(The Screenslaver turns on the cage lights that are able to hypnotize people, so Elastigirl has to fight him with her eyes closed. The Screenslaver turns on a taser and pins Elastigirl down on the table and tases her left arm, making it unusable for a bit. Elastigirl pulls the taser away and punches and throws stuff at the Screenslaver. He then tases her left leg. Elastigirl holds onto the wall and tries to hit the Screenslaver. The Screenslaver tases Elastigirl's right arm, making her fall off. Then he tases her body, and then her left arm again. Elastigirl was able to get the taser out of the Screenslaver's hands. Then the Screenslaver gets out of the cage. Elastigirl tackles him and roughly bangs him into the shelves, with her eyes still closed not knowing she was out of the cage. The Screenslaver grabs an axe and swings it at Elastigirl. Elastigirl realized she was out of the cage and opened her eyes right before the Screenslaver swung the axe and dodged it. Elastigirl pins him on the floor and was about to punch him until he shines the light on her and then gets away. He also pushes a button to a bomb. Elastigirl follows him but can only limp because of the taser. The Screenslaver runs down the stairs with Elastigirl behind him, by now she was able to run normally. The Screenslaver turns on the fire alarm making everyone come out of the apartments. Elastigirl ends up bumping into someone.)

Elastigirl: Sorry!

(The Screenslaver goes down some more stairs and then down an elevator shaft. Elastigirl comes down too but gets punched. The Screenslaver runs through people while Elastigirl goes over everyone. The Screenslaver went through a door and it took a few seconds for Elastigirl to figure out where he went. They both ran through a long hallway. Then, the Screenslaver opened a door to a balcony. Elastigirl pushes him off with herself and makes a parachute. Then, the top of the apartments exploded. The Screenslaver shined another light on Elastigirl which made her go back to normal. She then unmasks the Screenslaver.)

Pizza Delivery Guy: (stammers) W-what happened?

Elastigirl: [angrily] What happened is you destroyed my evidence!

Pizza Delivery Guy: (as he's being shoved into the police car) What's going on? What did I do? What did you guys do to me?

Cop: That's right, punk. Blame the system.

[Elastigirl smiles]

Elastigirl: Your tracker worked like a charm, Evelyn. (cuts to Evelyn) You're a genius.

Evelyn: Aw, shucks! I'm just the genius behind the genius.


Advertisement
Scene 22- Out of Control Powers
(Bob is sitting on the couch with the TV on and is very sleep deprived.)

Dash: (offscreen) Hey, Dad. (onscreen) We're doing fractions and denismals and percentages and I don't get 'em.

Bob: Aren't you...Didn't we get all caught up?

Dash: Yeah, we were caught up and now we're doing fractions and percentages and demicels.

Bob: Decimals.

News anchor: (on TV) ...the addition of the Incredibile, the supercar once driven by superhero, Mr. Incredible.

Buyer: It's the kind of thing you buy when you have everything else.

Bob: They said it was beyond repair.

Victor Catchet: Hey, it was in perfect condition.

Dash: You used to drive that?

Bob: They said it was destroyed.

News anchor: Long thought lost or destroyed, the famous car turned up at private auction.

Bob: They said it was...bu... [roars] THAT'S MY CAR!!!

(Bob runs off but accidentally falls in one of the indoor rivers. He gets out and then runs into his office)

Bob: (grumbling) Stupid water feature! (he grabs the remote that controls the Incredibile.)

Interviewer: This car is just loaded with amazing gadgets. Care to demonstrate?

Buyer: I'd love to, but we haven't figured out how to make them work yet.

(Bob runs up and turns on the jet boost)

Dash: Wow! It works?!

(Dash quickly grabs the remote from Bob)

Bob: Huh?

(Dash takes out the rocket launcher)

Bob: What are you doing? This is not a toy! That's a rocket launcher! (turns off the rocket launcher)

Dash: Sweet! Which one launches the rocket?

(Dash grabs the remote again)

Bob: Hey! This is not your car!

Dash: It's not your car, either!

Bob: It is so! It's the Incredibile.

Dash: Well, why's that guy have it?

Bob: Well, he shouldn't!

Dash: Launch the rockets! Launch the rockets! Launch the rockets!

Bob: I'm not launching anything!

Dash: I wanna blow it up!

Bob: Do you think I want an angry rich guy coming after me right now when I'm trying not to...distract your mother. (turns off everything, sighing in defeat) Rich guy got my car.

Dash: So, you're not gonna steal your car back from the rich guy?

(Bob sits back down until Jack-Jack sneezes and flies into Violet's room. Violet comes running downstairs, screaming.)

Violet: What the heck is that?!

(Jack-Jack's in his monster form, blowing raspberries at Violet and then goes back to normal, laughing. Bob sighs and goes to pick up Jack-Jack.)

Dash: Jack-Jack has powers?!

Bob: Well, yeah, but...

Violet: You knew about this?

Bob: Yeah.

Violet: Why didn't you tell us?

Bob: I don't know.

Dash: We're your kids! We need to know these things!

Violet: Did you tell Mom?

Bob: No.

Violet: Why not?!

Bob: Your mother is not...

Dash: You'd want us to tell you, wouldn't you?!.

Bob: ...what we're talking about.

Violet: Why would you not tell Mom?

Bob: Because I didn't wanna...

Violet: What?

Dash: Come on, man!

Bob: Because it's not the time.

Violet: Why?!

Bob: Because...

Dash: So uncool!

Bob: (exploding) BECAUSE I'M FORMULATING, OK?!?!

(Violet and Dash are taken aback from Bob's sudden tone.)

Bob: I'm taking in information, I'm processing! I'm doing the math, I'm fixing the boyfriend and keeping the baby from turning into a flaming monster! (smiling unintentionally while in anger) HOW DO I DO IT? By rolling with the PUNCHES, BABY! (back to his anger) I eat thunder and CRAP lightning, OK?! Cos I'm Mr. Incredible! Not "Mr. So-So" or "Mr. Mediocre-Guy". MR. INCREDIBLE!

(Violet and Dash are speechless, while Jack-Jack giggles a bit.)

Violet: ...We should call Lucius.

Bob: NO! I can handle it! There's no way I'm gonna...

(Jack-Jack sneezes and flies out of the house. A frantic Bob quickly runs outside, breaking a glass door and catches him while also falling in the pool.)

Jack-Jack: Dada.

Violet: I'm calling Lucius.

(cuts to Jack-Jack biting onto his teddy bear, while Parrs and Lucius watch him.)

Lucius: Looks normal to me. When did this start happening?

Bob: Since Helen got the job.

Lucius: I assume she knows?

Bob: Are you kidding? I can't tell her about this, not while she's doing hero work!

(Jack-Jack sees Elastigirl on the TV)

Jack-Jack: Mama!

Elastigirl: (on TV) Girls, come on. Leave the saving the world to the men? I don't think so.

Jack-Jack: Mama!

(Bob turns off the TV)

Bob: I've got to succeed! So she can succeed. So we can succeed!

Lucius: I get it, Bob! I get it. When was the last time you slept?

Bob: Who keeps track of that? Besides, he's a baby. I can handle it, I got this handled.

Lucius: So, you good then? You got everything under control, right? (they turn around to see Jack-Jack go to the other dimension.) What the--?!

Bob: Cookie! Cha Cha want a cookie? Num-num cookie? Cha Cha wanna num-num? Num-num cookie! Cookie! Cookie!

Lucius: You're not...Oh, my God!

Bob: Cookie!

Jack-Jack: (comes back from the other dimension and gets a cookie) Dada! Dada. Dada.

Lucius: Whoa! OK! OK. So, he can still hear you from the...

Bob: ...from the other dimension, yeah.

Lucius: That is freaky. I mean, that's not like...

Bob: ...not like our other kids. No, it is not. Full powers, totally random.

Lucius: So, now he's what? Is he good?

Bob: Yeah, you'd think so, right? Obviously, I can't keep giving him cookies!!!

Jack-Jack: Uh-uh?

Bob: -- But if I stop.

(Jack-Jack turns into his monster form and leaps on Bob.)

Lucius: Ahhh! He is freaking! Again, he is freaking!

Bob: No! No biting the daddy! No biting!

Lucius: What the--?!

(Cuts to Bob, Lucius, and Jack-Jack sitting on the couch and Jack-Jack is eating an ice ball. He finishes it and starts to ask for another one.)

Lucius: Okay. (makes another ice ball)

Bob: I think I just need a little bit of me time. Then I'll be good to go.

Lucius: Oh, you need more than me time, Bob. You need major life realignment on a number of levels. Starting with baby superfreak here! You need some solid outside-the-box thinking.


Advertisement
Scene 23- Auntie Edna
(Bob drives up to Edna's place)

Edna: Galbaki? Elastigirl's supersuit is by Galbaki?! Explain yourself!

(Jack-Jack is crying in the background)

Edna: Oh, my God. You're worse than I thought.

Bob: It's the baby. I brought the baby.

Edna: Oh, highly unusual. (Bob pulls up to the driveway and then cuts to him and Edna walking down the hall) You look ghastly, Robert.

Bob: I haven't been sleeping. I broke my daughter, they keep changing math we needed double-A batteries, but I got triple-A's and now we still need double-A batteries. I put one red thing in a load of whites and now everything's pink. And I think we need eggs.

Edna: Done properly, parenting is a heroic act. Done properly. I am fortunate that it has never afflicted me. But you do not come to me for eggs and batteries, Robert. I design hero-wear and Elastigirl must have a new suit.

Bob: (Sighs) Actually, it's Jack-Jack.

Edna: You also wish a new suit for the baby? I would hardly classify this as an emergency.

Bob: Well, he's a special case. Worth studying. If I could just leave him with you for a while...

Edna: Leave him?! Here?! (sees Jack-Jack chewing on her dress. She pulls it away from him. Jack-Jack starts following Edna.) I am not a baby person, Robert. I have no baby facilities. I do not involve myself in the prosaic day-to-day...to...day. (Jack-Jack then changes his face and hair to look like Edna.) Fascinating! Are you seeing this, Robert?

(Jack-Jack then sneezes causing him to fly up into the air. As he falls, Edna tries to catch him, but Jack-Jack floats above the floor.)

Edna: Oh, my God. Yes! (cuts to her rushing Bob outside) Of course you can leave the baby overnight. I'm sure filling in for Helen is challenging, and you are very tired and the other children need you and miss you, and you must go to them. Auntie Edna will take care of everything so, drive safely and goodbye. I enjoy our visits.

Bob: "Auntie Edna"?

Scene 24- The Defeat of Screenslaver
(Now, guests are at a celebration for the defeat of Screenslaver. Winston clinks his glass to get everyone's attention.)

Winston: (offscreen) Attention. Attention. (onscreen) I wanna thank everyone that came out tonight in support of superheroes and bringing them back into society! You all made it happen. The need for this has been made crystal clear in recent days with bad actors like the self-proclaimed Screenslaver (pulls Screenslaver's mask out) threatening our peace. His reign was short, huh? And thanks to this woman, a great super. You love her. You missed her. Welcome back, Elastigirl. (a spotlight shines on Elastigirl.) Come on up here. Don't be bashful. Come on. Get up here. (Elastigirl walks to where Winston is)

Winston: (to Elastigirl) I want you to have this. (gives Elastigirl the mask) A memento.

Elastigirl: Thanks, Winston, Evelyn, and everyone at DevTech. I am forever in your debt. And thanks to all of you, your pressure changed all the right minds.

Winston: We've made amazing headway in a very short time which leads me to an important announcement. Just now, at a worldwide summit leaders from more than a hundred of the world's top countries have agreed to make superheroes legal again! We'll gather superheroes and leaders from all over the planet on our boat, the Everjust for a televised signing ceremony at sea!

Elastigirl: Now if you'll excuse us, we got a ship to catch!

(Voyd walks over to Elastigirl)

Voyd: Hey. Hi, it's me, again. Um, there's, uh, something I've always wanted to ask you. Yeah, how do you balance the superhero stuff with the life stuff? I know I can handle the superhero stuff...

(Elastigirl notices something strange with the video from her suit cam.)

Elastigirl: Uh-huh, uh-huh. Oh. Would you please excuse me a moment?

Voyd: Oh. Yeah, okay, see you later! Good talk!

(Elastigirl goes into a room with a computer and starts to investigate.)

Scene 25- Bob Apologizes
(Violet's reading while Bob comes back and approaches her.)

Bob: Hey, Vi.

Violet: Hey. Where's Jack-Jack?

Bob: E's taking him for a little bit.

Violet: Edna is babysitting?

Bob: Yeah. (sits on the couch exhausted; the couch shifts an inch and Violet grabs the cushion where she's sitting to brace herself)

Violet: And you're okay with this?

Bob: Yeah. I don't know why, but yeah. (Violet is about to leave but Bob tells her something) I wanted to say something to you. Sorry about Tony. I didn't think about Dicker erasing his memory or about you having to pay the price for a choice you never made. It's not fair, I know. And then, I made it worse at the restaurant by trying to... Anyway. Anyway... I'm sorry. I'm used to knowing what the right thing to do is but now, I'm not sure anymore. I just wanna be... (sighs)... a good dad.

Violet: You're not good. You're super.

(Violet hugs Bob as Bob falls asleep.)

Scene 26- Elastigirl gets Hypnotized
(Evelyn comes in where Elastigirl is)

Evelyn: Are superheroes allowed to drink on duty?

Elastigirl: I'm definitely not on duty. Ignore the costume. I know I should be up there but I had to step away from the grip and grins, you know?

Evelyn: Gotta get away to keep it pure. I know I do.

Elastigirl: What are you getting away from?

Evelyn: Eh, you know, company stuff. My brother, mostly.

Elastigirl: But you love him, you two are this company. Yin and yang.

Evelyn: Yeah, I invent the stuff, he's good at people. Pleasing them, engaging them, figuring out what they want. I never know what people want.

Elastigirl: What do you think they want?

Evelyn: Ease. People will trade quality for ease every time. It may be crap, but hey, it's convenient.

Elastigirl: Yeah. Kind of like this case.

Evelyn: What? The Screenslaver?

Elastigirl: Yeah, something's not sitting right. It was too easy.

Evelyn: That was too easy? (chuckles) Wow.

Elastigirl: Funny.

Evelyn: What?

Elastigirl: Look at that. One of Screenslaver's monitors is tuned into my suit cam.

Evelyn: What?

Elastigirl: Isn't the suit cam closed circuit?

Evelyn: It is.

Elastigirl: Then how come Screenslaver has it?

Evelyn: Maybe he hacked it?

Elastigirl: So, he's sophisticated enough to do that but he has simple locks on his doors?

Evelyn: Maybe he wanted you to find him.

Elastigirl: He wanted to get caught?

Evelyn: He wanted you to win.

Elastigirl: That makes no sense. He's a brilliant guy. If he's smart enough to conceive of technology like this he's smart enough to think of something to do with it. The guy we put in jail delivered pizzas.

Evelyn: So? Einstein was a patent clerk. Look, you won. You got the guy who...

Elastigirl: Wait. All Screenslaver needs to do to hypnotize someone is get a screen in front of their eyes. But what if the screen doesn't look like a screen? What if the pizza guy is really a pizza guy but he was controlled by the screens built into his glasses-!

(Evelyn quickly puts the goggles on Elastigirl.)

Evelyn: You are good.

Scene 27- Jack-Jack's New Suit
(Bob is about to wake up and Dash is watching Jonny Quest on the TV)

Jonny Quest: (on TV) Look, the robot! It's taking off.

Dr. Quest: I'm not getting a reading yet.

Race: Press "fire"?

Dr. Quest: Now! More power.

Jonny Quest: Oh, I hope this works, Dad.

Violet: I thought it was best to just let you sleep. Seventeen hours. How do you feel?

Bob: (chuckles) Super.

Jonny Quest: You got it, Dad. Hurray!

(Cuts to Edna's house)

Bob: I can't tell you how much I appreciate you watching Jack-Jack for me, E.

Edna: Yes, I'm sure your gratitude is quite inexpressible. Don't ask me to do it again, darling. My rates are far too high.

Bob: Oh, uh...

Edna: I am joking, Robert. I enjoyed the assignment. He is bright and I am stimulating. We deserve each other. Your child is a polymorph. Like all babies, he has enormous potential. It is not unknown for Supers to have more than one power when young but this little one has many. Yes, you have many powers! (Edna types in her code while Jack-Jack puts his hand on the scanner, another scanner checks his eyes and he also does the voice identification.) I understand your lack of sleep and coherency, Robert. Babies can be anything, and your child is no exception. He has pure, unlimited potential, Robert. He slept while I worked in a creative fever. Auntie Edna stayed up all night making sure you look fabulous in your many forms.

Bob: What are you... You're putting him in the...

Edna: ...In the chamber, Robert. He is part of the demonstration and will be fine. Your challenge is to manage a baby who has multiple powers and no control over them, yes?

Bob: Huh. That sums it up.

Edna: I often work to music and I noticed the baby responds to it as well. Specifically, Mozart. (starts playing music and Jack-Jack dances to it) I blended Kevlar with carbyne for durability under duress and cotton for comfort. Interwoven with these fabrics are a mesh of tiny sensors that monitor the baby's physical properties.

Bob: (Jack-Jack starts duplicating) Oh, Lord! (stammers) W-w-what is he doing?

Edna: Well, it's Mozart, Robert. Can you blame him? The important thing is that the suit and tracker anticipated the change and alerted you.

Bob: Oh, no. Cookies. I gotta get cookies!

Edna: You do not need cookies. (A giant cookie goes across the chamber and Jack-Jack and all of the clones follow it.) As I learned quite painfully last night any solution involving cookies will inevitably result in the demon baby. (the door closes without Jack-Jack being able to eat the cookie)

(Jack-Jack turns into the monster version of himself.)

Bob: "Combustion imminent"? What does that mean? (Jack-Jack turns into flames) Ahhh!!!

Edna: It means fire, Robert, for which the suit has countermeasures. I suggest you extinguish the baby's flames before he trips the sprinkler system.

(Bob presses the button making the fire extinguish with flame retardant)

Edna: The flame retardant is blackberry lavender, darling. Effective, edible, and delicious.

Bob: Well, what do you know? That is useful.

Edna: Although, I have doubtlessly exceeded your expectations for a single night's work the suit and device contain a few more features we need to discuss.

(Edna, Jack-Jack, and Bob go outside and into the car.)

Bob: Thanks again, E, for everything. How much do I owe you for?

Edna: Pish-posh, darling. Your bill will be covered by my fee for being Mr. Incredible, Elastigirl, and Frozone's exclusive designer throughout the known universe and until the end of time. But babysitting this one I do for free, darling.

Scene 28- Evelyn's Monologue
(Cuts to Elastigirl in a freezing room.)

(Elastigirl sees that she's tied to a chair and then she tries to take the goggles off but she can barely reach them.)

Evelyn: I would resist the temptation to stretch. The temperature around you is well below freezing. Try to stretch and...you'll break.

Elastigirl: So, you're the Screenslaver.

Evelyn: Yes and no. Let's say, I created the character and pre-recorded the messages.

Elastigirl: Does Winston know?

Evelyn: That I'm the Screenslaver? Of course not. Can you imagine what Mr. "Free Enterprise" would do with my hypnosis technology?

Elastigirl: Worse than what you're doing?

Evelyn: Hey, I'm using the technology to destroy people's trust in it. Like I'm using superheroes.

Elastigirl: Who did I put in jail?

Evelyn: Pizza delivery guy. Seemed the right height, build. He gave you a pretty good fight. I should say I gave you a pretty good fight through him.

Elastigirl: (shivering) But it doesn't bother you that an innocent man is in jail?

Evelyn: Eh, he was surly...and the pizza was cold.

Elastigirl: I counted on you.

Evelyn: That's why you failed.

Elastigirl: What?

Evelyn: Why would you count on me? Because I built you a bike? Because my brother knows the words to your theme song? We don't know each other!

Elastigirl: But you can count on me anyway.

Evelyn: I am supposed to, aren't I? Because you have some strange abilities and a shiny costume the rest of us are supposed to put our lives into your gloved hands. That's what my father believed. When our home was broken into, my mother wanted to hide. Begged my father to use the safe room. But father insisted they call his superhero friends. He died, pointlessly, stupidly...waiting for heroes to save the day.

Elastigirl: But why would you...your brother...

Evelyn: Is a child! He remembers the time when we had parents and superheroes. So, like a child, Winston conflates the two. "Mommy and Daddy went away because Supers went away." Our sweet parents were fools to put their lives in anybody else's hands. Superheroes keep us weak!

Elastigirl: Are you gonna kill me?

Evelyn: Nah. Using you is better. You're gonna help me make Supers illegal, forever.

(She turns on Elastigirl's goggles again. Elastigirl tries to resist it but gets hypnotized.)

Scene 29- Escaping the House
(Bob and the kids are in the backyard getting ready to test Jack-Jack's powers)

Jack-Jack: Dada. Dada.

Bob: Ready? Laser eyes. (Jack-Jack shoots his lasers) Stop. (he stops)

Dash: Wow!

Violet: Yeah! Yay, Jack-Jack!

Dash: Yeah, baby!

Bob: And that's not all. Watch this. (he picks up Jack-Jack) Jack-Jack, blaster ready?

(Bob holds Jack-Jack like he's aiming and Jack-Jack shoots his lasers like a gun)

Bob: Pew, pew, pew, pew, pew.

Dash: No way.

Violet: That is crazy cool.

Dash: My turn. I get to blast him first!

Violet: Let me try. I want him.

Dash: Give him to me.

Bob: Hey, I'm just demonstrating. No firing the baby around the house, you understand? This is potentially dangerous and we're trying to teach him to control his powers, okay? (the screen that Violet's holding is beeping) Stop. See the screen.

(Jack-Jack goes into the other dimension)

Violet: He vanished! That's really cool! (she uses the screen to find Jack-Jack)

Bob: Okay, good. Use the thing. (Dash grabs a cookie) That's the current readout. Click it. See the readout? Dimension four. See the shape? That's the room. See where he is in relation? So, where is he?

Dash: He's...there!

Bob: Okay. Come out. Num-num cookie?

(Jack-Jack comes back and Dash gives him a cookie)

Violet and Dash: Yay, Jack-Jack!

Bob: Yeah, Jack-Jack!

Violet: That's really cool.

(Bob hears his Incrediphone beeping. He to it and picks it up.)

Bob: Hello?

Evelyn: Elastigirl's in trouble.

Bob: What? What happened to her?

Evelyn: Sorry to tell you on the phone. Meet me on our ship at DevTech.

Bob: The ship at Devtech. I'll be there in 15 minutes.

Violet: (offscreen) What's at the ship at DevTech?

(Bob switches lines to Lucius)

Bob: Lucius? Bob. Helen's in trouble. I need someone to watch the kids. (cuts to Lucius) Suit up. It might get weird.

Lucius: I'll be there ASAP. Fifteen tops. (goes to grab his suit)

Honey: (offscreen) Where are you going ASAP?! You better be back ASAP! And leaving that suit!

(Bob comes out with his suit on)

Bob: I gotta go. I'll be home soon. Lucius will be here sooner. No firing the baby around the house, okay?

Violet: What's at the ship at DevTech? And why are you in your supersuit?!

(Bob drives to the ship at DevTech)

(Cuts to Dash in Bob's room taking the Incredibile remote. Violet comes in and Dash quickly hides the remote behind his back. Violet opens the dresser and grabs Dash, Helen, and her suits.)

Dash: Is that Mom's supersuit?

Violet: She may need it. You never know.

Dash: What's going on?

Violet: I don't know, but Dad called Lucius, after getting a call about Mom, and then left.

Dash: I thought you renounced superheroes.

Violet: Yeah, well, I renounce my renunciation. (throws Dash's supersuit to him) Put that on.

(Dash quickly puts on his supersuit. He then hears the doorbell and answers the door. He sees the wannabe supers with goggles on.)

Voyd: Hello there, "little fella".

Dash: Hello.

Voyd: You kids aren't safe. The Deavors sent us to take you...

Frozone: Well, isn't that redundant? The Deavors just sent me here to guard the house. (goes into the house) Cause the kids aren't safe. I get it, managerial screw-up. Tell Winston I handled it. You understand, Ms...

Voyd: Voyd.

Frozone: Ms. Voyd. Drive safely. (tries to close the door but Voyd keeps it open with her foot.)

(Dash presses the button to the remote and the Incredibile comes.)

Voyd: The thing is, he wants us to bring you, too.

Frozone: Hey. (freezes the Supers and quickly closes the door) That isn't gonna hold them long! Dash, grab the baby!

(Violet and Dash quickly run to get Jack-Jack. The Supers break out of the ice.)

Voyd: Spread out!

(Dash comes out of Jack-Jack's room carrying him and runs out with Frozone and Violet. Then, He-Lectrix appears and they turn around. Brick appears on the other side so Frozone made an ice slide to get down to the first floor.)

Frozone: Dash! We gotta get to my car!

(Frozone pushes Krushauer back while Reflux put lava in front of Dash. Dash goes to a different direction but Screech breaks through the window. Dash turns around but instead of going upstairs, he goes through Voyd's portals making him go back to the other side of the room.)

Dash: What? What's going on?

Voyd: (gets out of her portal) Little fella!

(Frozone pushes her back in her portal and then freezes one of Screech's wings making him unable to fly for a bit. He-Lectrix tries to electrocute the kids. Violet makes a force field. Krushauer makes Violet's force field shrink. Frozone tries to stop Krushauer but gets grabbed by Brick. Soon, the Incredibile comes through the wall.)

Dash: It worked!

(Frozone escapes from Brick and freezes He-Lectrix to the wall.)

Frozone: Incredibile, windows down! (the windows go down) Dive in!

(The kids get in. Frozone avoids Brick but falls into one of Voyd's portals and Brick grabs him again. Frozone puts ice on her face.)

Frozone: Incredibile, set voice identification! (punches Krushauer) Loudly, say your names!

Violet: Violet Parr!

Dash: Dashiell Robert Parr!

(Once again, Brick grabs Frozone but Screech puts the goggles on him.)

Dash: Lucius!

(Frozone scares the kids.)

Violet: Incredibile, escape!

(Frozone tries to stop the Incredibile with ice but the kids escape.)

Scene 30- Mr. Incredible gets Hypnotized
Mr. Incredible: Fill me in!

Evelyn: Good news and bad news. We found her. She seems physically fine but she's had an encounter with Screenslaver and she's acting kind of strange. In here.

(Mr. Incredible walks in a dark room with glowing blue goggles in the background)

Mr. Incredible: Strange how?

(Elastigirl starts punching Mr. Incredible. Then she throws chairs at him, and then she kicks him multiple times. Then Mr. Incredible stops one of her kicks.)

Mr. Incredible: Helen! (Elastigirl backs off for a second) Helen, what are you...?

(He tries to grab her but she dodges it. Then she wraps her arms and legs around him and starts choking him. Evelyn watches as she grabs something out of her jacket. Mr. Incredible soon gets a bit of control on Elastigirl.)

Mr. Incredible: Helen, it's me!

(Elastigirl then kisses Mr. Incredible while she stretches her arm to grab the goggles Evelyn's holding. She grabs them and quickly puts them on Mr. Incredible.)

Scene 31- Getting on the Ship
Violet: Incredibile, pull over. (the Incredibile pulls over) (sighs) We can't go to E's. You saw those goggles they put on Lucius. They were wearing them, too. They're all under someone's control. They've probably done the same to Mom.

Dash: Okay. Bad guys after us. No Mom, no Dad. No Lucius. But we have our powers, this car and...what?

(Then, Jack-Jack slightly goes into the other dimension and then Dash and Violet realize they have Jack-Jack's powers. Dash gives them their masks and they put them on.)

Violet: Incredibile, take us to Devtech.

(Cuts to Voyd talking to Evelyn)

Voyd: The kids have escaped in a tricked-out car, but we got Frozone.

Evelyn: Bring him to the ship at Devtech immediately.

(Cuts to Incredibile)

Dash: Aw, we missed 'em! Oh, I wish the Incredibile could follow that boat.

(The Incredibile follows Dash's command)

Violet: What did you do?

Dash: I don't know.

(The Incredibile backs up)

Violet: What did you do?!

Dash: I didn't do anything!!

(Then, the Incredibile turns into a boat and goes into the ocean)

Dash: Wow, this car does anything I say.

Violet: We didn't plan this well.

Dash: What do you mean? We're here, aren't we?

Violet: Yes, we're here. We need to be up there.

(Points to the top of the ship)

Dash: Hey...what if the Incredibile has ejector seats?

(The Incredibile goes to the ejector seat setting)

Violet: Wait, what? No.

Dash: Yeah, baby!

Violet: No, don't say anymore...

Dash: Max power! Launch!

(Dash presses the button and they all fly up onto the ship)

Violet: Come on.

Scene 32- Violet Vs. Voyd
(Winston is greeting everyone who came)

Winston: Hello! Glad you could come. Welcome to the conference.

(The camera goes down to see Elastigirl, Mr. Incredibles, and Frozone. Then, it cuts to the conference room.)

Winston: (to Evelyn) Our stars, where are they? (cuts to Evelyn) The event's about to start.

Evelyn: They didn't want to upstage the others. (cuts to Winston) They'll join for the signing.

Winston: Welcome, guests! You're in for a treat. This ship is the largest hydrofoil on the planet. So, hold onto something because we're going to open her up!

(The ship goes faster and the foils make it go higher)

Violet: We need to find Mom and Dad. Stay here. I'm gonna search for them. (she gives Jack-Jack to Dash and goes invisible)

Dash: Wait! Who's gonna watch Jack-Jack?

Violet: (goes back to being visible) Suck it up. I won't be long. (goes back invisible and is about to go out)

Dash: Wait. Wait, but, but wait!

Violet: This is important. They are in trouble. It's up to us! To us! Understand? Keep him amused but quiet! (walks out)

Dash: Ugh.

(Still invisible, Violet walks into the engine room and then into a hallway. She sees He-Lectrix and Krushauer with Elastigirl and Mr. Incredible.)

(Cuts to Dash who's having trouble stopping Jack-Jack from crying)

Dash: Shh! Quiet! (he picks Jack-Jack up but he teleports out of Dash's hands) Huh?

(Dash tries to get Jack-Jack be he walks through a wall)

Dash: Jack-Jack?

(Violet trips over a plant and Voyd and Screech notice. Violet quickly turns back invisible and runs away. Voyd goes over and sees footprints leading to Violet. Cuts to Dash trying to find Jack-Jack.)

Dash: Jack-Jack? Jack-Jack!

(Violet enters a hallway but then Voyd comes through a portal in front of her. Violet tries to run away but Voyd makes a portal under her to keep her from running. Violet goes invisible and kicks Voyd. Violet uses her force field to slam Voyd into the walls. Then, Voyd uses a fire extinguisher and sprays it on Violet so she can see her. Violet uses a force filed to protect herself but Voyd makes a portal to get inside the force field and punches Violet. Voyd is about to pounce on Violet but Violet makes a force field. Voyd makes a portal under Violet and Violet goes through. Voyd grabs Violet and pins her to the wall and tries to put the goggles on. Violet kicks Voyd back and then pushes off to the lower floor.)

Scene 33- Finding Jack-Jack
Dash: Jack-Jack!

Violet: The mesmerized Supers know we're here but I found Mom and Dad...where's Jack-Jack? (Dash shrugs his shoulders) You lost him?! I gave you one thing to do!

Dash: The tracker! Use the tracker!

(Violet takes the tracker out of Dash's backpack and sees the Jack-Jack's going up)

Dash: He's going up?

Violet: He's in an elevator.

Dash: Let's go!

(The elevator stops at the kitchen and a man spots Jack-Jack)

Man: Hey, little baby. Where are your parents?

(Jack-Jack turns into his monster form and scares the man. Cuts to the conference room and Winston sees Elastigirl, Mr. Incredible, and Frozone walk in.)

Winston: And here they are, folks! The Supers who started this whole thing.

Evelyn: I told you they'd be there in time.

Winston: Hey, did you make them new masks?

Evelyn: Yeah. Night vision, et cetera. They look good, right?

Woman: (on TV) So simple, even he can do it.

Evelyn: And we're back live in three, two, one...

Winston: This is a momentous occasion. We've all managed to accomplish something extraordinarily rare in today's world. We agree on something.

Winston: (on TV) We agree to undo a bad decision. To make sure a few extraordinarily gifted members of the world's many countries are treated fairly. To invite them once again to use their gifts to benefit the world. I thank all of you for representing your nation's commitment to superheroes. With special thanks to Ambassador Selick. Yeah, it's okay. Let her hear you.

Ambassador: Thank you. Thank you so much.

Winston: Thank you, Ambassador, for your early and very crucial support. I can't think of anyone more deserving than you to be the first signature on the International Superhero Accord.

(The Ambassador signs the International Superhero Accord.)

Ambassador: There it is!

(Cuts to Dash and Violet in the elevator. Then, the door opens to see Jack-Jack in his fire form.)

Dash: (gasps) HOLY COW!!

Violet: (to herself) I know he's on fire! Just put him out!

(Jack-Jack's fire is put out and he laughs but Screech hears him. Violet looks out the window to see him running to the kitchen)

Violet: (gasps) They're coming.

(Then, Screech, Voyd, and Krushauer come in. Then it cuts to the kids in the vents and Jack-Jack's holding the tracker.)

Dash: Is it okay to give him that?

Violet: I wasn't hearing any better ideas.

(Jack-Jack then laughs again causing the hypnotized Supers to know where they are.)

(Krushauer crushes one side of the vents, then the other side, and then he crushes the two sides together. Jack-Jack starts to grow then he come out of the vent, crushing the Supers. He plays with the tracker but then breaks it.)

Dash: No!

(Jack-Jack starts crying)

Violet: Come on, Jack-Jack. We have to go. (Dash gives Violet a cookie and then she tries to give it to Jack-Jack) Cookie num-num?

(Jack-Jack refuses and runs through the walls, going back to his original size. Violet and Dash run to catch up with Jack-Jack. they see him in a hallway.)

Jack-Jack: Mama, Mama.

Dash: I see him. He's getting away!

Violet: Stand back!

(Violet uses a force field to make the hole bigger so Dash can fit through. Dash tries to run after Jack-Jack but Jack-Jack goes through a wall.)

Dash: Darn it!

Violet: He's heading for Mom!

Scene 34- Turning the Ship
Winston: It is done. The world is super again! (the audience watching and the Supers and ambassadors cheer) Group photo. Come on. Group photo, everyone. Squeeze in. That's it. Historic occasion. Everyone, smile. (everyone groups together to take a photo. Soon, the walls show the pattern and hypnotizes everyone. Elastigirl, Frozone, and Mr. Incredible go in front.)

Evelyn: Go on phase two.

Elastigirl: Years of mandated and hiding and silence have made us bitter! You bring us into the light only to clean up the messes your lack of discipline creates!

Mr. Incredible: Your bodies and your character are weak! Your promises are empty, and you will pay for it!

Frozone: We no longer serve you! We serve only us! May the fittest survive!

(Elastigirl stretches her arms and take down the camera.)

Chad: Well, we um...Some very alarming moments there before the, uh, technical difficulties. Please bear with us.

(Elastigirl, Frozone, and Mr. Incredible walk out and head to the bridge. Mr. Incredible throws the captain.)

Crew member: What? (picks up emergency line) Mayday! Mayday! Mayday!

Evelyn: Hold! Let him talk.

Crew member: Superheroes have forcibly taken the bridge.

Evelyn: Now.

Crew member: Repeat. Superheroes have--AHH!

(Mr. Incredible throws him across the room causing him to knock out the other crew member. Mr. Incredible takes out the part of the controls where the emergency line is and throws it out of the bridge. Elastigirl keeps turning the ship until Evelyn tells her to stop.)

Evelyn: A little further. Little further. Stop.

(The ship is now going toward the city. Then Mr. Incredible crushes the steering wheel.)

Scene 35- Freeing the Supers
(Jack-Jack goes through the door.)

Evelyn: What the... a baby?

(Violet and Dash get in.)

Dash: Mom and Dad! Uncle Lucius?

(Elastigirl, Mr. Incredible and Frozone try attacking Dash, Violet and Jack-Jack but Violet puts up a force field.)

Jack-Jack: My mama. (goes through the force field)

Violet: Jack-Jack! No!

(Jack-Jack floats to Elastigirl and she holds him.)

Evelyn: A Super baby?

(Jack-Jack starts to take off Elastigirl's goggles with his mind)

Evelyn: No, no, no! Put him down!

(Jack-Jack completely takes off the goggles and Elastigirl is back to normal.)

Evelyn: Grab her!

Elastigirl: No! (ducks and goes to the kids) Hold Jack-Jack. (gives Jack-Jack to Violet)

(Elastigirl avoids Frozone's ice and takes his goggles off. She avoids Mr. Incredible's punches and takes his goggles off, while Mr. Incredible rips the supersuit. Elastigirl steps on the goggles to destroy them.)

Evelyn: No!

(Mr. Incredible goes into a fighting a position toward Elastigirl.)

Elastigirl: Hey, it's me!

Mr. Incredible: Yeah, that's what I thought last time.

Elastigirl: (Looks behind her) Kids, what are you...you came for us?

Violet: Don't be mad.

Elastigirl: Oh, sweetie, (she hugs them) how could I be mad? I'm proud.

Frozone: Not to break up a tender moment, but where are we? Is this DevTech's ship?

Elastigirl: Evelyn Deavor controls the Screenslaver and until a second ago, us. (rumbles) Where's the crew?

(Frozone and Mr. Incredible look behind them to see the crew unconscious.)

Mr. Incredible: Uh-oh. Did I do that?

Violet: Mom, the suit? (Elastigirl sees the tear) Try this. (throws her the Mrs. Incredible suit to her)

(Meanwhile, the other suits cams on the hynotzied wannabes all immediately came on, as things were being taken to the extreme with Evelyn.)

Evelyn: (to other Supers) Phase Three. Go on Phase Three!

(All wannabe Supers obey and head off to take down the other Supers.)

Mr. Incredible: Why are the kids here? You didn't go to the house?

Frozone: I went to the house. (to the kids) You didn't escape? How did you not escape?!

Violet and Dash: Hey! We just saved you!

(Elastigirl takes Jack-Jack)

Mr. Incredible: Escape?! Escape from who?!

(Brick opens the door while a portal from Voyd appears letting He-Lectrix and Voyd come in)

Frozone: Those guys! (he and Mr. Incredible avoids the electricity)

(Elastigirl tries to keep back protecting Jack-Jack until he turns into his monster form)

Elastigirl: What the--?! Jack-Jack has powers?!

Mr. Incredible: We know! Fight now, talk later!

(Mr. Incredible tries to punch Brick but she punches him first.)

(Then, Elastigirl tries to punch and kick Voyd but Voyd creates portals to keep the punches away. She puts one near Elastigirl which causes her to punch herself.)

(He-Lectrix tries to electrocute Dash but Dash is too fast. Then Violet puts a force field around He-Lectrix causing him to electrocute himself.)

(Elastigirl finally punches Voyd and takes her goggles off and steps on them. Jack-Jack then leaps on He-Lectrix and destroys his goggles. Screech comes in while carrying Reflux. He drops him off on inside the bridge. He shoots lava and Violet puts a force field around her and Dash.)

(Then, Frozone comes and fights the lava. He pushes Reflux off the controls and takes his goggles off. Then Screech comes in and takes Dash. Violet quickly takes Jack-Jack.)

Violet: Jack-Jack. Laser eyes! Pew, pew, pew, pew.

(Violet shoots Jack-Jack's laser eyes and one of them hit Screeches wing, causing him to fall. Screech screeches at Dash and Dash rapidly kicks him in the head. He gets up and runs around Screen, making Screech's head turn around in a circle. Then Dash punches the goggles making them break.)

Dash: Ah-ha!

(Mr. Incredible is about to punch Brick but Brick stops it and pins him to the wall and is about to punch him. Elastigirl quickly wraps her arms around Brick's neck and pulls her back, giving Mr. Incredible a change to punch her glasses off.)

Evelyn: Ugh. (walks out)

Scene 36- Stopping the Ship and Evelyn
(Evelyn walks into the room where everyone is hypnotized and takes Winston.)

Evelyn: Come with me, Winston. (she takes Winston to the elevator to the plane)

Winston: Did I faint?

Evelyn: You'll be safe here.

Winston: Safe?! Safe from what? (goes up the elevator and is in the plane) Where are the diplomats? Th-the Supers?

Evelyn: Still hypnotized.

Winston: What have you DONE?!

(Everyone in the bridge sees the plane is about to take off.)

Elastigirl: Evelyn, she's escaping!

Mr. Incredible: Well, go after her. Finish your mission.

Elastigirl: I can't just go! What about the kids? Jack-Jack, who's gonna...

Violet: Mom! Go. We've got this.

Elastigirl: Voyd, come with me.

(Voyd and Elastigirl run out)

Mr. Incredible: I'll go shut down the engine.

Frozone: I'll try to slow the ship from the bow.

Dash: Wait, someone's missing. W-w-where's the crusher guy?

Evelyn: (to Winston) Strap in now!

(Cuts to Voyd and Elastigirl climbing the stairs quickly. Then it cuts to Krushauer moving pipes to stop Mr. Incredible from getting into the engine room. Then it cuts to Frozone trying to slow down the ship. Then it cuts back to Winston and Evelyn.)

Evelyn: It's for your own good.

Winston: NO! (opens door) THIS IS! (jumps off the plane onto the ship)

(Mr. Incredibles then gets Krushauer's goggles off by throwing one pipe into his face. Elastigirl and Voyd get to the top but Evelyn already took off.)

Voyd: We're too late!

Elastigirl: Get me up to the jet!

(Voyd makes a portal above the plane and Elastigirl jumps in, but Elastigirl misses the plane.)

Voyd: (to herself) No!

(Voyd makes another portal below Elastigirl and she falls in. She very roughly lands on top of the plane but there isn't anything to grab on to so she falls off. Voyd makes another portal and Elastigirl goes through. The other portal was below the plane, making Elastigirl go up and hit the bottom of it. Voyd makes another portal that that's inside the plane. Elastigirl stretches her arm to grab something and got inside. Then cuts to Mr. Incredible trying to move the pipes with his strength but to no use.)

Mr. Incredible: Hey, you did this. Can you undo it?

Krushauer: You want me to un-crush?

Mr. Incredible: What? No one's ever asked for that?

Krushauer: No. To un-crush is silly. Why un-crush?

Mr. Incredible: To get into the engine room--Oh, forget it. We don't have enough time. (runs back outside)

Krushauer: What if I said to un-punch someone? What do you do?

(Evelyn notices the hatch door is open knowing that Elastigirl got on)

Evelyn: Welcome aboard, Elastigirl. (off screen) Although we haven't yet reached our cruising altitude... (Evelyn quickly goes down and makes Elastigirl hit the ceiling.) ...feel free to roam about the cabin! Or just relax and let the cabin roam about you! (She starts turning making Elastigirl roll around on the cabin. Then Evelyn goes up even higher and then Elastigirl tries to get to the front of the plane.)

(Cuts to Frozone and Violet looking at the city, then, Mr. Incredible and Dash run out with Dash holding Jack-Jack.)

Mr. Incredible: I can't get to the engine room!

Frozone: Well we gotta do something! Because trying to slow it down ain't working.

Dash: Hey! What about turning the boat?

Mr. Incredible and Frozone: The steering's been destroyed!

Violet: Dash means from the outside!

Dash: Yeah!

Violet: If we break off one of the foils and turn the rudder, we can veer the ship away from the city!

Mr. Incredible: That might work.

Frozone: I'll turn the front, you turn the rear.

Mr. Incredible: Using the rudder? That's underwater! How am I supposed to get--all right. Come on, kids.

Violet: Dad! I know this is going to work. But, if it doesn't, and we crash, my shields are probably better protection than the ship. I should stay here. With Jack-Jack. (takes Jack-Jack)

Mr. Incredible: That's my girl.

Frozone: Remember, Bob, we're both turning right! (starts putting ice in front of the right foil to break it)

(Cuts back to Evelyn and Elastigirl. Evelyn puts on an oxygen mask while Elastigirl tries to get to her, while barely being able to walk.)

Evelyn: You know what's sad? (she makes the plane go even higher making Elastigirl hit the wall, which causes the emergency supplies to fall off.) If it weren't for your core beliefs, I think we could've been good friends.

(Elastigirl attempts to get to Evelyn but keeps falling because there isn't enough oxygen)

Elastigirl: At least I ha...have core beliefs. (she tries to reach for Evelyn but falls to the ground again trying to breathe.)

(Cuts to the news)

Chad: We have breaking news. While there is still no radio contact, the ship has changed direction and is heading towards land at a high rate of speed.

(Cuts to Dash and Mr. Incredible)

Mr. Incredible: So, Dash. (pushes the anchor off and puts himself on the chain) I am going to the rudder. Once I turn the ship, you hit the pull up button.

Dash: Okay, Dad!

Mr. Incredible: Now lower me-- [screams] --DOWWWNN!!! (Dash presses the button and Mr. Incredible goes in the ocean.)

(Cuts back to Evelyn and Elastigirl.)

Evelyn: The reputations of superheroes are ruined. You will never become legal. Ever.

Elastigirl: (sounding all slurry) Never?

Evelyn: [laughs] No.

Elastigirl: Ever?

Evelyn: (more stern) No.

Elastigirl: (gets up and leans on Evelyn) Not even a little smidgee-widgee?

Evelyn: Oh, hypoxia. When you don't have enough oxygen, things seem really silly. (pushes Elastigirl back on the floor)

(Mr. Incredible is trying to get to the rudder and narrowly avoids the blades.)

Evelyn: Things get sillier and sillier and then you die.

Elastigirl: [laughs] I don't wanna die.

Evelyn: Ah, nobody does.

(She kicks Elastigirl farther away.)

Evelyn: Really. [chuckles wickedly] Not such a bad way to go.

(Elastigirl spots the flare gun and shoots Evelyn's oxygen tank with it, making her go through the window.)

Evelyn: (screams in horror)

(Elastigirl then gets back up and takes the oxygen mask. Then she turns the plane around. Winston comes in the room with the ambassadors and Supers. He stops everyone from being hypnotized)

Winston: Everyone, we need to get to the back of the ship! All Supers, protect your ambassadors!

Brick: Follow.

(Cuts to outside of the boat)

Dash: Dad's been underwater for too long!

(Cuts to Elastigirl trying to get close to where Evelyn was falling. She then puts the plane on auto pilot and then gets ready to launch herself. Then cuts back to Dash.)

Dash: We gotta pull him up!

Violet: Wait. It's too soon!

(Elastigirl launches herself and catches Evelyn and makes a parachute. Then cuts back to Dash.)

Dash: I'm gonna press the button!

Violet: Not yet!

(Mr. Incredible pushes the rudder. Elastigirl is trying to hold onto Evelyn but Evelyn kicks her in the face, causing her to let go. Then Mr. Incredible turns the rudder all the way.)

Violet: It's turning. It's working!

Frozone: (He's almost done breaking the foil.) Now!

Violet: Dash, now!

(Dash pushes the button making Mr. Incredible go back up. Elastigirl is trying to catch up to Evelyn so she can catch her again.)

Voyd: Save yourself. Make a chute. (Elastigirl grabs Evelyn last second and makes another parachute) Make a chute. Make a chute. (Voyd makes the portal to the ship) MAKE THE CHUTE!!

(Elastigirl and Evelyn goes through the portal and onto the ship.)

Frozone: HELEN! BRACE YOURSELVES!

(Frozone breaks the foil making the ship turn. Elastigirl catches Violet, Jack-Jack, and Dash.)

Mr. Incredible: CRASH POSITIONS!

(Frozone puts a bunch of snow to minimize damage to the city. The ship goes on top of the road on the snow.)

Elastigirl: I missed Jack-Jack's first power?!

Mr. Incredible: Actually, you missed the first 17.

(Jack-Jack then duplicates himself)

(Everyone is cheering for the Supers and then cuts to Evelyn getting arrested.)

Evelyn: (to Elastigirl) The fact that you saved me doesn't make you right.

Elastigirl: But it does make you alive.

Winston: And I'm grateful for that.

Elastigirl: I'm sorry, but she'll go to prison.

Violet: Well, I'm sorry she's rich and will probably get no more than a slap on the wrist.

Winston: First of all, Violet, I like you. And who knows what the future may bring, but I have a good feeling about all of you.

Frozone: Hmm. Good feeling. Should we be worried?

(Mr. Incredible chuckles)

Elastigirl: You guys got the next shift. I'm beat. (takes Jack-Jack)

Voyd: (to Violet) I saw what you did back there. That was incredible! No pun intended.

Violet: (off screen) Sorry, I had to punch you.

(Mr. Incredible turns around to see the Incredibile come and the remote in Dashes hand.)

Dash: Yeah, baby! My sweet ride! (turns around to see Mr. Incredible glaring at him. Mr. Incredible hold out his hand so Dash can give him the remote. He then chuckles.)

(Cuts to Frozone, Elastigirl, and Mr. Incredible walking into city hall.)

Judge: And in recognition of the extraordinary service they have demonstrated, the legal status of superheroes is hereby restored.

(The Supers are happy that Supers are legal again.)

Scene 37- Going to the Movies
(Violet's at school trying to reintroduce herself to Tony)

Violet: You don't know me, do you?

Tony: No, I don't...wait. Are you the girl with the water--?

Violet: (interrupting) I'm Violet Parr!! (holds her hand out to shake)

Tony: (shakes her hand) I'm Tony.

(Cuts to Tony running outside to get in the Parr's car.)

Violet: Tony, this is my mom.

Helen: Pleased to meet you.

Violet: This is my dad.

Bob: Oh, we've met.

Violet: And this...is embarrassing.

Dash: (In British accent) Charmed, I'm sure.

Violet: My little brother, Dash. (Jack-Jack throws a toy) And the baby is Jack-Jack. I tried to limit it to one parent.

Helen: We're all going to a movie, too, Tony. Don't mind us.

Bob: We'll be sitting on the other side of the theater. Not watching you. (winks)

Violet: (laughing) He's kidding. (annoyed) They are only dropping us off at the theater. They have other things to do!

Tony: So, you guys are close, I guess.

Violet: Yeah, I guess.

Bob: We can get closer!

Helen: (laughing) Bob!

(They stop in front of the theater but see criminals pass shooting guns. The Parrs look at each other and confuses Tony.)

Violet: STOP! Let us out! (pushes Tony out) Here, large popcorn, small soda. Save me a seat, center, about eight rows back. (she gets back in the car) I'll be back before the previews are over!

[The family puts on their masks and Bob's car reveals his Incredibile, as the Incredits 2 play.]